Artist: Sonic Youth 
Album: Sister 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
There’s a few people around who’ve had “Sonic Youth” on their lips for a while now. They’re rich. It’s either that, or they read the NME, and we wouldn’t want to accuse anyone of doing that these days, would we? They scour the import bins, and on their S2O-a-pop travels, they’ve picked up the two previous Sonic Youth albums, Bad Moon Rising and Evol. “Blah blah blah, Sonic Youth,” they go. 
Well Flying Nun (NZ’s own) gets the last laugh, cos for all of us that ain't got those other goodies (tho’ I’m saving up for ’em...) they’ve gone and got the rights to release Sister, the SY newie, and it’s the best. Better than the snatches I’ve heard of the other two. Better than anything else you’ll hear this year. Awesome. 
You can’t help but bandy words like “brutal" around when you talk of the New York four-piece; as members of that city’s avant garde post-punk “no wave” movement of the late 70s, their approach to rock music has always been an oblique one. They’re just as prepared to attack their guitars with screwdrivers as they are with picks, but their development, culminating in Evol's stark contrast between beauty and malevolent white noise, has been steadily towards a re-definition of the territory of rock’s outer limits. 
Their disciplined sense of melody and a good tune enables them, with Sister, to achieve a synthesis between those disparate elements of cold beauty and ugly noise. This is exemplified in the track ‘Cotton Crown,’ where over a sculptured barrage of fierce guitars and primal drumming, Thurston Moore sings lines like “angels are dreaming of you” ... the effect of the words is enhanced by the odd interplay of the guitars and seething rhythmic undercurrent, making it the album’s tour-de-force.
Sonic Youth's lyricism is deliberately understated (“come on get in the car / let’s go for a ride somewhere,” — ‘Pacific Coast Highway ), their realism is dirty. No surprise then, that there is a mention of Raymond Carver on the inner sleeve credits — his claustrophobic vignettes of the darker side of American life work over similar territory to Sonic Youth’s soundscapes: tales of schizophrenia, claustrophobic Catholicism and squalor, “keeping commission to faith’s transmission.”
Art and artifice go out the window however when it comes to songs like ‘Catholic Block'and a cover of Crime’s 1976 punk nugget ‘Hotwire My Heart.’ They’re urgent songs, draped in an angry snarl of feedback — you even hear the band plug into their overdriven amps before the songs begin! 
Sister's 10 chilling tracks may be an acquired taste — I picked it up at the first hearing though, and they ain’t that far removed from fellow New Yorker Madonna; and in their own way, the Sonic Youth seem determined to become rock icons (probably so they can self-destruct in the limelight, though). Give them a chance: buy their record. Sister is intelligent in its simple approach; not flawless, but challenging, more so than anything else you’re likely to hear this year. Awesome again. 
Artist: Michael Jackson 
Album: Bad 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
“This is like Beethoven coming to town!” enthused the record exec, announcing Michael Jackson’s local concert. But that’s just dumb. Who said Beethoven could dance? 
It’s difficult to think of a cultural event so anticipated as this album. Colin Hogg compared it to Halley's Comet, and remember what a disappointment that was? Bad has not just been hyped, but created a buzz that money can’t buy. For five years it’s been Michael in the sequinned suit and sunglasses, Michael the eunuch Jehovah’s Witness, Michael talks to the animals, Michael gets a cut and tuck, Michael in the bubble ... 
But with all the Wacko Jacko talk, it’s easy to forget that Off the Wall and Thriller are two of the most important records of the 80s, breaking down barriers and leading the way with highest common denominator musical innovations. So influential were those albums that now their lesser moments sound cliched, with only the dancefloor hits standing up: ‘Don't Stop Till You Get Enough,’ ‘Billie Jean,’ the irresistable grooveshakers.
But five years for the follow-up? Five years to write eight songs and record two more? Let’s remember what the only other comparable pop icons achieved in their two peak years, ’64 and '65: four hit albums, six hit singles (some not LP tracks), two hit films — all critically acclaimed — plus seven tours.
Then there’s the video, 20 minutes which must make CBS wonder, Where did all the money go, and how come he looks so ugly? Eighteen million dollars, it takes your breath away. Nelson George, rock’s pre-eminent black critic, asks how many films young black directors could have made with that budget. Okay, it’s not as offensive as America’s military spending, but how many starving Africans could that have saved? Is s questioning such gross extravagance from the guy who wrote ‘We are the World’ irrelevant?
All that aside, how good is Bad? Very good. One would think that no music could stand up to such expectations, but with five great songs Bad offers a higher return than both Off the Wall and Thriller. Michael Jackson is a modern song and dance man, and it’s always his dance tracks that stand up best. When he gets romantic, he wimps out, but what can you expect from someone whose best friend is a chimpanzee? ‘Bad’ is more than ‘Beat It, Part Two’ — it leaps out, with whip-cracking rhythms and stunning production. No one’s allowed to leave the dancefloor as it segues seamlessly into ‘The Way You Make Me Feel,’ dance heaven. It’s pure industrial funk with a bass riff like driving pistons that, with the sublime synthetic chorus, brings Motown and the Tempts’ ‘The Way You Do the Things You Do’ into the 90s. The other great dancer opens side two, ‘Another Part of Me, ’ which glides as lightfooted as Fred Astaire. 
Those tracks are all Jackson’s achievement, despite the average of 15 musicians credited on each song and the 250-odd people he thanks elsewhere. The two other peaks are ‘Just Good Friends’ (by Terry Britten, who composed Tina's ‘What’s Love ...’) and Jackson’s ‘The Man in the Mirror.’ The ‘Friend’ is Stevie Wonder, and it’s a sublime duet between the two ex-child stars of soul. 
‘The Man in the Mirror' reflects on Michael’s self-obsession, he talks to himself with a nervous breathiness, scared to go outside. A beautiful ballad, it could be from an old musical, where the hero recognises the error of his ways, assisted by the Andrae Crouch choir. ‘I Just Can't Stop Loving You' also recalls The Sound of Music: the chorus soars, though the lyrics sink.
But that eclecticism, and his voice, are Jackson's strongest points; he's a magpie whose talent and influences turn him into a swan. From the BB King “Ain’t nobody’s business!” on ‘Bad’ to the way he worries a line like a prepubescent Otis on ‘Dirty Diana, ’ Jackson’s a black music grab-bag, but with his own voice, and it’s one of the finest: versatile, soulful and gritty, with skittish, nervous phrasing.
Jackson treads a fine line between delicacy and heavy-handedness. Occasionally that anxious breathiness blows away a ballad such as the soporific ‘Liberian Girl,’ while Steve Stevens' guitar attack hammers ‘Dirty Diana’ (now that's worth an Oedipa! psychology thesis) into the ground. ‘Speed Demon,’ too, is killed by its metallic insistence, with sequencers going crazy. Luther Vandross knows you can fill a dancefloor without using rhythmic artillery, but subtle funk. 
With Luther and Prince, Jackson is one of the innovative leaders of modern music, though no one could call him prolific (or a lyricist). What have we got to look forward to? Spinoff hits for months, and CBS again threatening the world’s vinyl reserves this Christmas—though with a much worthier item than Bruce’s five live. Get past the colossal myth, and you’ll boogie till you get enough. 
Artist: Pet Shop Boys 
Album: Actually 
Record Label: Parlophone 
Artist: Boy George 
Album: Sold 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor 
There’s something lacking beneath Neil Tennant's foppish vocals and vague lyrics; the Pet Shop Boys are, I suspect, the Village People in dinner jackets. If so, Frankie Goes to Hollywood must be green with envy. 
Envious because the Pet Shop Boys are getting away with something they couldn’t and envious because the Pet Shop Boys will, in the long term, sell more records. This is odd because Tennant and Lowe rate alongside Mel and Kim as one of the world’s great ready-made duos and many of their songs sound nine months late. ‘West End Girls’ arrived with a rap long after anyone else and could have been an Al Stewart song. ‘It's a Sin’ from Actually, sounds flat..  Why dance to the Eurobeat of ‘Heart' and ‘One More Chance' when you can dance to Prince. ABC or Janet Jackson? Why put these men on your wall when you can have Corinne Drewery or Terence Trent Darby?
More interestingly, Actually avoids any distinct style of its own. The Pet Shop Boys idea of pop moderne is to borrow a bit of Suicide here, someone else’s lyrics there and stitch it all up with a topical video. (‘It's a Sin’ was a three minute version of Name of the Rose) and bang! Instant top tenner. 
Anyone else with such obvious affrontery has been shot down in flames. Like Duran Duran, the Pet Shop Boys are the band the critics couldn’t kill.
Actually is all these things and less, and it will be a big success. The lads have even managed to get people talking about Dusty Springfield again by bringing her in to sing on ‘What Have I Done to Deserve This.' Fortunately for all, it’s a good song, as are 'I Want to Wake Up’ and ‘lt Couldn't Happen Here.' Still, their success leaves my jaw scraping the ground. Why? How? What for? 
Boy George, by contrast, is looking almost conventional. He’s done the big hit, the big tour, the big good-album-which-nobody-bought (From Luxury to Heartache), the big drug bust, and now he’s lined up for the big comeback, looking like a back issue of i-D and sounding, well sounding not all that bad. Sold’s title track is sullen and his cover of ‘Little Ghost’ is almost threatening - no mean feat for an artist who looks alarmingly like Jon Gadsby. Keep Me in Mind’ could be a Michael McDonald track and side two’s opener, ‘Just Ain’t Enough’ is an uptempo version of Millie Scott’s ‘Prisoner of Love’. Most of the other tracks are going for a very black feel, in both sound and voice (I wonder if black musicians like it or laugh at it?) and George himself has advanced way beyond the Malcolm Garret artwork and image game. Maybe if he got a nice hairduct and suit like Neil Tennant, and Neil Tennant dressed like a back issue of i-D, things would be more in their proper place. Boy George is the one with the good album and the Pet Shop Boys are the ones playing the pop game. Not that difficult to grasp, actually. 
Artist: Public Enemy 
Album: Yo Bum Rush the Show 
Record Label: Def Jam 
Reviewed by: Peter Grace 
Def Jam’s Public Enemy makes music that’s like the original punk, almost deliberately inaccessible and parochial. It’s for B-boys, but the message is dedicated to the proliferation of social nerds, glamour Gidgets and angry young Public Enemies everywhere: “Many have forgotten what they came here for / never knew or even had a clue— so you’re on the floor/just growin’ not known’ about your past / now you’re lookin’ pretty stupid while you’re shakin’ your ass.”
This hip-hop is a jerky, rhythmical drone, with a garage band guitar and wild, cryptic, brethless rapping. It’s monotonous, and yet it’s on the verge of dementia, a “toilet bowl” recording that's alive with the old sounds of hip-hop; the block parties of DJ Cool Here and Flash, and their muffled, unsophisticated amplification. The rock drumbeat, the feedback and the furry, indistinct vocals. Hip-hop has never needed state-of-the-art equipment, and while this is only an imitation of bad, it's good, and it’s original and it’s the best hip-hop album this year. 
Public Enemy are here to knock some sense into the B-boy bumph of guns and gold and fly girls. They've already de-capped the Beastie Bovs, and they’II push the Beasties into acknowledging their role as the new American heroes. The Beasties with egg on their face because they’re intelligent, but the idols of the idiot classes. The Beasties are the new Rolling Stones, bad and spotty and craving for some intellectual conversation.
Instead, Public Enemy will conquer the Village Voice and left, white America. Public Enemy are the semi-consciousness of black New York, a halfway-read Malcolm X, a riot going on in a dance. And while it’s idealist prosetylising, Public Enemy are not, never an Enemy, they’re campus communicators and media controllers, Long Island cousins of the Sex Pistols. It's rock anarchy. It should be the best dance record you've heard. Yo! Bum rush the Public Enemies.! MiUzi weighs a tone, Public Enemy are number one. 
Artist: Alexander O’Neal 
Album: Hearsay 
Record Label: Tabu 
Reviewed By: Simon Grigg 
Somebody somewhere decided that this album would benefit from snippets of party conversation between the tracks — a bad idea. They sound like outtakes from The Cosby Show and like that show, they’re amusing the first few times but cloyingly cutsie from then on. Fortunately they’re the only negative aspect to this record, probably the finest soul album to see local release this year. 
Alexander O'Neal’s 1985 self-titled debut album came out locally last year and sales were that of the proverbial dog, which was a shame, for those who chanced to hear it were as often as not addicted. Hopefully this disc will improve those sales figures: it's even better. Alexander is supposedly producers’ Jam and Lewis’s pet prodigy and it shows, they’ve held back all their strongest songs for this set, and the future of their own Secret project apparently rests with how well CBS do with this album. 
I love the uptempo tracks like the first single ‘Fake,’ already a local club hit over the past few months, the powerful ‘What Can I Say (to Make You Love Me)’ and the new single ‘Criticise.’ But it’s the slow stuff that really chills me, when that voice really crunches home. Tracks like ‘The Lover’s Sunshine’ and, most especially, ‘Crying Home’ are enough to tear me apart everytime. It’s the way the man can turn around an everyday phrase and give it added meaning with just an inflection on his voice. I love it. 
One of the albums of the year, no question. 
Artist: Marianne Faithfull 
Album: Strange Weather 
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
This album, her first in four years, is unlike anything Marianne Faithfull has ever done before. Consider the material. Whereas her previous three Island albums all contained a signifcant number of self-penned songs, here they’re all covers. And what covers. Four are from the 30s, others from the 50s and 60s. Only two are brand new, courtesy of Tom Waits and a Mac Rebennack (Dr John) collaboration with Doc Pomus. Other songwriters range from Huddie Ledbetter to Jerome Kern to Bob Dylan.
The album's musicians constitute an equally remarkable cross-section. Normally the idea of combining a serene ECM guitarist, an avant garde pianist, Lou Reed’s bass player and a classically oriented violinist would seem ridiculous. Here it works brilliantly, and that’s just the grouping on the first track. To discuss the various attributes of individual tracks is beyond the space available in this review. But just sample Faithfull in a duo with Rebennack’s rolling New Orleans piano. 
Obviously the song choice and arranging (all slow to mid-tempo) continue to foster Ms Faithfull’s image of decadent vulnerability and ennui. Even the re-recording of ‘As Tears Go By’ — her first single is now 23 years old — gains new resonance from the life lived in between. That once high, breathy vocal has long since become a familiar tattered rasp. What is surprising on Strange Weather is that it somehow manages to create valid interpretations. 
The inner sleeve carries an interesting note on how the album was conceived, by Hal Willmer, the man behind last year’s Kurt Weill tribute. The outer cover has a blurb by Kent-ucky-fried novelist Terry Southern in which he compares Faithfull to Lotte Lenya, Marlene Dietrich, even Billie Holiday. After one listen I dismissed those comparisons as inflated hype. Now, after many more hearings, I’ll concede Southern has a point. Marianne Faithfull has developed into a genuine torch singer. 
Artist: Able Tasmans 
Album: A Cuppa Tea and a Lie Down 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Fiona Rae 
Talented people make warm, friendly record. Lovely. With good humour and hands on their hearts, Able Tasmans have made one of the best releases of the year. A Cuppa Tea and a Lie Down seems to become more familiar each time I play it (which is often). It even looks friendly — wonderful bright cover and a Family Photograph on the back — people smiling! It’s a move onwards from ‘The Tired Sun,’ but doesn’t forget that foundation (‘Virtues Asunder’ and ‘Evil Barbecue’). 
Able Tasmans keep things distinctly New Zealand with the pastoral pleasantness of ‘And Relax’ and ‘And We Swam the Magic Bay,’ and the joyous ‘Rainbow.’ They’ve used all sorts here —viola, flute, great vocal arrangements (‘I See Now Where’ and ‘Fa Fa Fa Fa’), and Graeme Humphreys’ marvellous keyboards. Working with Te Kani Kani o te Rangitahi has made great impact — giving space and depth to a sometimes frantic past. 
See it, buy it, listen and enjoy. 
Artist: Jean-Paul Sartre Experience 
Album: Love Songs 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
What charmed me most about last year’s debut EP from the JPSE was its ambience and elusive, unsettled moods. Its five songs eluded categorisation and only hinted at influences. It was a fine record. Love Songs is a fine record too, though not as good — it’s fault seems to lie in the fact that it appears to be an exercise in stylisation, the exact opposite to what was true of their EP.
Basically, Love Songs is a guitar album. Gary Sullivan’s drumming never really forces its way to the forefront as it can do in the live setting; only on ‘I Like Rain’ do we sense his precision and control reaching out to shift the entire song — here the effect is marvellous. The record’s styles stem from that guitar focus —what we receive is Sartrean interpretations of styles, from outta-the-garage rockabilly crawl (‘All the Way Down’), Velvets and solo-Reed (‘Einstein,’ ‘Grey Parade’), wah-wah ridden 70s disco (‘Crap Rap,’ ‘Let There Be Love’) and more. 
Hell, it's almost as if the self-styled ‘Gentlemen of Rock’ have made a Prince album! But it’s mellow, though not so subtle as it could have been — giving up its secrets all too readily. Maybe that’s a production fault; not so much the laidbacked-ness but the pervasive lazy mood of the songs, making it unfocused (aside from the obvious motif of the record title) when it could have been more.
They say, “you gotta get with the Experience." I say “I agree.” It's not the vital work that it could’ve been (though I’m sure they have that in them yet), but it will make the return trip to my turntable many times, I’m sure. 
Artist: That Petrol Emotion 
Album: Babble 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed by: George Kay
During their years at the top, the Undertones were happy to leave the risky business of writing songs specifically on the Troubles to incompetents like Stiff Little Fingers, contenting themselves with refining the pop art to teenage wastelands and personal responses to Northern Ireland. 
But even boys grow up, and it’s as if Sharkey’s newly revealed commercial appetite had previously subdued the Undertones of old, because the brothers O’Neill have come out blazing about injustices in Ireland in That Petrol Emotion. The singles ‘Keen’ railed about Irish political prisoners being separated from their families, and ‘V2’ tore into the degradation of strip searching Irish women. And Manic Pop Thrill was just that, an uneven combination of the manic political emotions of newcomers Reamann O Gormain (‘Lifeblood’) and Ciaran McLaughlin (‘Tightlipped’) with Sean O’Neill’s lingering tortured romances (’lt’s a Good Thing’ and 'Natural Kind of Joy’).
Babble reconciles these seemingly opposed extremes, particularly in a first side of hard-nosed hardcore rock ’n’ roll, through a guitar sound that borders on a R&B dirtiness mixed into a mechanically violent tension that makes Damian O’Neill’s ‘For What It's Worth’ and ‘Static’ so frightening they’re brilliant. Brother Sean, not to be outdone, doles out two of the most natural riffs you’ll hear all decade — ‘Swamp’ and the gigantic ‘Big Decision,’ leaving vocalist Steve Mack to steal some fame for ‘Spin Cycle’ and Ciaran McLaughlan room to breathe his last on 'Creeping to the Cross.’ 
Forget any veiled praise, this is a great album only diverted from immortality by a second side that occasionally puts noise before songs. There is no justification for not having this album. 
Artist: Bunny Wailer 
Album: Rootsman Skanking 
Record Label: Serengeti
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
With two of the original Wailers now deceased, Bunny Waiter assumes the mantle, whatever title you may choose to confer upon him. Neville Livingston has never actively sought superstardom, unlike his two colleagues. He bowed out of the group in 1974 because he couldn’t stand touring, partying and all the isms and schisms.
A devout Rastaman, he returned to the life of a farmer, founding his own Solomonic label, which allowed him to maintain artistic freedom. He didn’t perform live again until 1982, when he tore apart Jamaica’s Youth Consciousness Festival with a set which produced an outstanding live album. This finally encouraged him to return to regular concerts, and by all accounts, his performance at this year’s Reggae Sunsplash was a killer. 
The fact is, Bunny Wailer has produced some 10 LPs in his solo career, four of which (Blackheart Man, Struggle, Sings the Wallers and Rock 'n' Groove) must be regarded as brilliant. It is from the last-named album that comes much of Rootsman Skanking.
Free of various pressures and trappings, Bunny has followed his own path, producing reggae of timeless beauty and passion. His voice is a mixture of Sam Cooke and Gene McDaniels, soaring in the upper register, gruff down low. He also acknowledges the influence of the Impressions on JA singers with his cover of Curtis Mayfield’s 'Another Dance.’
The Rock 'n' Groove tracks which form the basis of this album are edited down from the original dancehall versions (clumsily in one place). The remaining three tracks, ‘Collyman,’ ‘Gamblings’ and ‘Cry to Me’ could well be outtakes or B-sides from the same sessions.
What all this means is that non-cognoscenti can buy with confidence. ‘Cool Runnings’ and ‘Dance Rock’ are two of the finest expressions of sheer dance floor pleasure that reggae has produced. It should go without saying, of course, that the playing and production are of the highest calibre. 
This album is released by Jayrem through the American Shanachie label. If they have access to the rest of the Solomonic catalogue, might it be too much to ask for the release of Struggle, which rates as perhaps the finest achievement of a Rootsman never content to rest on his laurels? 
Artist: Dave Edmunds
Album: I Hear You Rockin’ 
Record label: Arista 
Reviewed By: Mark Kennedy
Isn’t it great to discover insitutions like Dave Edmunds are still alive and well in 1987? And still playing rock ’n’ roll as if they just invented it. Well, I’m a sucker for it anyway, ever since Edmunds belonged, along with the “Jesus of Cool” himself, Nick Lowe, to the top late-70s combo Rockpile. Surely one of the alltime great “day off” bands ever, they were fuelled in equal parts by 50s’ nostalgia, smart pop songs and vodka. 
But with the exception of Edmunds’ 1970 remake of ‘I Hear You Knocking’ (which alone will ensure his place in pop history), he has enjoyed only minor hits, remaining a cult star and sometime producer.
And this offering? Well, more of the same really, but great live renditions of some of his best known work, including ‘Crawling from the Wreckage,’ the aforementioned ‘I Hear You Knocking’ and ‘Girls Talk,’ one of the very few Costello covers to surpass its maker’s original. 
The band play with the relentless enthusiasm of those who love their work, and never let up throughout. Though much maligned by hip critics and snobs nowadays, this proves pub rock can still breath and endure. And I’d sooner have “all mv rowdy friends” over any day. 
Artist: Various 
Album: La Bamba Soundtrack 
Record label: London
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke
The breakthrough achieved by Los Lobos covering the only Hispanic rock hit ever is the best excuse for marketing I’ve seen this year. Let’s see if ‘La Bamba’ is more than a novelty for radio though — will they play any singles off the vastly superior By the Light of the Moon? 
Los Lobos have kept the music of Ritchie Valens alive for years, and three-quarters of this soundtrack album consists of superb Valens covers, from rollicking wedding stampers like ‘La Bamba,’ ‘Charlena,’ ‘Come On Let’s Go’ and ‘Ooh My Head’ to smoochy ballads such as ‘Donna’ and ‘Goodnight My Love’ — and always the band gives the songs their own 80s identity. 
All but one of the remaining tracks however are revivals by 50s interpreters that, while competent, come off like Elvis soundalikes. Howard Huntsberry probably makes an okay living imitating Jackie Wilson’s operatic, tear-inflected wail (‘Lonely Teardrops’), but Stray Cat Brian Setzer and Marshall Crenshaw should know better than to carefully carbon-copy their heroes Eddie Cochrane and Buddy Holly. Bo Diddley shows them how on his classic piece of voodoo rockabilly ‘Who Do You Love’ —those rattlesnake hips still frighten. 
The music sits well in the movie, but as good as the eight Los Lobos numbers are, you’d be better off with any of their own albums, plus some real roots music like last year's remastered Buddy Holly collection. 
Artist: 
Lime Spiders 
Album: The Cave Comes Alive 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
The Lime Spiders have been kicking around the backwaters of suburban Sydney since 1981, playing a distinctive brand of rock ’n’ roll that owes most to seminal Australian rockers, Radio Birdman and psychedelic metallers, the brilliant MCS. Ex-Birdman Rob Younger was responsible for the production on their breakthrough single of 1984, ‘Save Girl, a wicked slab of vinyl that should sit proudly in any collection, either as a 7“ or in the form of the Slave Girl EP (Hybrid Records) a collection of six brill early 45s. Both records are readily (and relatively cheaply) available in New Zealand import bins. 
The band's big break came last year when they signed to Virgin, a deal which saw the first NZ release of their product with the six-track Weirdo Libido EP earlier this year. That EP, with its scorching title track (a 'Save Girl,’ part two,' they say) and four 60s covers recorded live on the other side, sets the scene for The Cave Comes Alive; you won’t hear more energy. compressed onto vinyl this year, and so the album promised much... 
And delivers much feedback, crashin’ drums and a tight set of songs. Psychedelia and their pop sensibilities lose out to the Marshalls, maybe a little too metallic for my tastes, though the freakout reprise of ‘Just One Solution’ is great. Some of the 12 tracks fall flat, but both versions of ‘Solution,’ the single ‘My Favourite Room’ and ‘Rock Star’ all stand up well alongside the likes of Cream’s ‘NSU’ (done well). 
Nowhere however is there as much punch and raw energy as those two earlier records packed — a disappointment, I’m sure, to those who justifiably love the likes of 'Save Girl' and ‘Out of Control.’ There’s enough energy here to save them from being as awful as the Hoodoo Gurus or as boring as their copyists though, and enough good songs to pull the band through. 
I’m sure they’re more proud of the earlier efforts — get them, then get this, and see that the Lime Spiders are indeed as hot as their album cover is garish. 
Artist: Al Green 
Album: Soul Survivor 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Now this is a strange one. A grabbag of a record really. Each side starts with a high-tech, synth-soul funk excursion written and produced by newcomers (to me at least) Jim Randolph and Eban Kelly. So far, so good. Elsewhere in the record Al redeems that well-known bag of gloop ‘He Ain’t Heavy, He’s My Brother’ by singing the hell out of it, but he fails to take the jump on that other sentimental favourite ‘You’ve Got a Friend.’ Most of the rest is perhaps best described as country-gospel: rearranged and rustic versions of traditional hymns. 
There may be a rushed even unfinished feel to this collection but fans like me will find here only confirmation of their hero’s artistry. All of these oddments are blessed — thank you, Lord — with vocal performances that are exquisite yet modest and that are always both inspired and heartfelt. Al Green is clearly incapable of making a bad record, but it’s also plain that this album is unlikely to be one to win new converts to his cause. But if there’s a place in the commercial marketplace for a song that chides us not to blaspheme, then Al Green is surely the man to deliver it.
All in all, it’s just the sound of Al artisting around. And that’s good enough for me.
Artist: Spines 
Album: Idiot Sun
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: Fiona Rae 
After the lovely love songs of the Jean-Paul Experience, and the friendly familiarity of the Able Tasmans, I am swung into discomfort by Idiot Sun. Let’s not say it grates, rather it irritates — the songs itch and scratch around, a bit indefinable, never very comfortable. ‘ldiot Sun' is more MOR than previous Spines records, it's interesting, but I haven’t squawked with glee at anything here. 
However, these are mature, clearly directed songs, and make much of Neill Duncan’s talking saxophone, and even his bagpipes. I've always enjoyed Jon McLeary’s nervy vocals, elegantly caterwauling through ‘More To Go’ and ‘ldiot Sun,’ and his staccato ‘Kiss of Death.’ 
The best is saved for side two —the excellent ‘Minutes Don’t Matter,’ with Wendy Calder’s bass sounding particularly fine. It’s a frantic, pushy song, and equally as good is 'There is No Satan, ’ which says: “There is no Satan here — we’re all free / He can’t do anything / ... We can do anything." Good advice. ‘I Wish You Well' is a stamper, but kinda nice all the same. 
An intelligent, well-made record (great cover), but not overly exciting. 
Artist: Roger Waters 
Album: Radio KAOS 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
Having not yet heard the new release from the other three it’s difficult to say which will sound more like Pink Floyd. There are certainly likenesses evident on Radio KAOS, mainly in Waters’ vocals, though there are the rattlings, background chatter, backing vocals and even dog barks that remind of previous Pink masterpieces. 
Lyrically it’s not the heavy going of the last Floyd’s, and is more accessible than his first album on hitchhiking. The backbone is a bizarre story of twin brothers, Bennie who goes crazy one night, and Billy who develops radio radar capabilities with his mind. He locks into KAOS, which makes for a most entertaining station that is kept lighthearted with such items as a weirdo phoning to tell his dislike of seafood. 
Only on ‘Four Minutes’ does war and bombs come into into, but ‘The Tide is Turning ends things on a positive note of hope. Mel Collins plays some smooth sax and the rest of the musicianship and production is as good as expected for this kind of project.
Artist: RoyOrbison 
Album: In Dreams: the Greatest Hits 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Truly great singers, if they haven’t ruined their voices through self-abuse, should only get better with age. Roy Orbison is a truly great singer. Dressed in black, with puffy face and impenetrable tinted glasses as thick as Coke bottles, he looks an odd candidate for stardom, until, that is, he opens his mouth. 
Orbison’s voice is awe-inspiring, ranging from a mumble to a fullblooded yell, and usually in the same song. He approaches his songs like operatic arias, starting off gently, and gradually getting more fevered, more anguished, more tragic. Not responding to the torture of ‘Crying’ would be like ignoring a baby in need. 
After rockabilly beginnings on the Sun label, he had hit after grandiose hit in the late 50s and early 60s, squeezing everything out of his voice, supported by lush strings which built along with his voice till it all reached a crescendo that could curdle your blood. His voice pierced through the syrup with an edgy dramatic power, he had no need for a falsetto as the voice could squeeze in anywhere. Among the classic ballads were ‘Running Scared,’ ‘Only the Lonely,’ ‘Lana,’ ‘lt’s Over’ and ‘Crying,’ butOrbison also turned out many convincing rockers, ‘Pretty Woman,' ‘Oooby Dooby' and ‘Claudette,’ that are standards.
Orbison’s ‘ln Dreams’ was recently featured in the film Blue Velvet, and its success brings this wonderful compilation of Orbison’s greats. But it’s a compilation with a difference: the classic tunes have been re-recorded to perfection by Orbison with orchestra and simple rock band. Orbison’s voice is as stunning as ever, and Mike Utley’s production (he was the laconic Louisianan pianist in Jimmy Buffett’s band) complements the voice with wit and taste. 
What with Patsy Cline, Dusty Springfield and now Roy Orbison becoming available again in 1987, mornings after have never been better. 
Artist: Midnight Oil 
Album: Diesel and Dust 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
'The Dead Heart,’ which was released some months ago, gives a good indication of the overall concept and feel of the Oils’ new Diesel and Dust. The main point of concern is the damage caused to the native land and people of Australia by large mining companies and modern civilisation in general. Something has to be done so the wounds can begin to be healed and the opening song ‘Beds are Burning’ is a a heartfelt plea that really hits the message home.
The album was recorded at Albert Studios in Sydney with a sparkling clean production job from Wayne Livesey and the band, so everything is good and clear. The barren landscape of the western desert can be easily pictured among the spacious sounds created in ‘Wara Kurna' ano other sections. Peter Garrett continues the humanitarian theme with his firm anti-nuclear stand on ‘Put Down that Weapon.’ 
This is probably Midnight Oil’s most acoustic recording since their more aggressive beginnings several years back and the photography and packaging of it all is superb. Diesel and Dust is sure to do well, and will also hopefully open the way for some future solutions. 
Artist: The Judds 
Album: Give a Little Love 
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
Reviewed By: Now let’s get this right: that’s Wynonna on the left and Naomi on the right... or is it the other way round? The mother and daughter duo that sing like heaven has opened up, and God has bestowed them with the voices of angels. 
Just listen to their introduction on Elvis’s ‘Don’t Be Cruel,’ with the Jordanaires on backups — the way they sing “baa-bee” just knocks me out, it just flows with an easy beauty that’s breathtaking. Each track is perfection, the glory of ‘I’m Falling in Love Tonight’ is almost surpassed by ‘Maybe Your Baby's Got the Blues,' with its fine harmony and sense of pain, that sure don’t hurt when the Judds start to sing. Traditional country values are stressed on ‘The Sweetest Gift (a Mother's Smile)’ with Emmylou Harris, that sounds refreshing and far from corny.
The American version has 10 tracks, but the New Zealand pressing has five extra tracks, the burning ‘Change of Heart’ and four cuts from the mini-album, including my personal favourite ‘lsn’t He a Strange One.’
If your appetite for sweet country started with the sublime Trio album, add this to your list and you won’t be disappointed.
Artist: Various 
Album: Who’s That Girl? Soundtrack 
Record Label: Warners 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor
Almost a brand new Madonna album — the lady contributes four out of nine tracks — with extras. The title track, ‘Who’s that Girl,’ has, of course, been getting a lot of airplay and deservedly so; it’s a cruisy and clever little song, twisting just when you expect the melody to take a rest. 'Causing a Commotion’ is an average-sounding dancefloor re-hash but ‘The Look of Love’ (not the ABC song) would make a champion second single. A lazy samba with a wistful refrain, it’s Madonna's best ballad to date. 
Scritti Politti are sounding likewise cruisy and sweet and it’s good to see them doing the smart thing and getting on to a movie soundtrack. ‘Best Thing Ever’ is heavy on the melody and lifts on the drums, drummer Fred Maher is not credited and has been spending his time since Cupid & Psyche producing I’m Talking and doing data transfer for Kraftwerk. But heck, it's a brand new song from a group who take almost as much time between albums as Michael Jackson, so be grateful. 
‘Step by Step’ is the return of the dreaded Club Nouveau, using an old Kurtis Blow drum pattern again. It's squeaky clean, painless, and if it gets as much airplay as their previous ‘Lean on Me’ I will get a nosebleed. The same goes for Duncan Faure’s 24 Hours which sounds like George Harrison. 
Much better is Kid Creole’s ex-muse Coati Mundi whose ‘So So Bad' exceeds all espectations with a partylike mix of hollering and stomping. The worst track on the album, by contrast, belongs to old pros Stock, Aitken and Waterman’s act Michael Davidson, but in scolding them one must remember S, A & W’s Roadblock,’ which has covered up a multitude of sins. 
Artist: The Long Ryders 
Album: Two Fisted Tales 
Record Label: Island 
Artist: X 
Album: See How We Are 
Record Label: Elektra 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
Two bands currently resident in LA, both of whom are struggling to be felt above the real pulse that courses through the likes of Husker Du, REM and the Replacements and the brilliantly embryonic Let’s Active and Tim Lee’s Windbreakers. 
The Long Ryders are expatriate Southerners who’ve taken to cashing in Confederate sentiments for hard West Coast currency. Two Fisted Tales is their third album and like their commendable first and the inferior western exploitations of State of Our Union, it homes in on a Byrds-Beatles-Prairie past that’s too convenient be true. ‘Man of Misery’ and ‘A Stitch in Time’ read like old stately Virginia mansions — full of class but empty of real sentiment. ‘Gunslinger Man’ just can’t out-draw the riff and the single ‘I Want You Bad’ owes too much to McGuinn and McCartney to let it pass.
Despite better intentions ‘Harriet Tubman’s Gonna Carry Me Home’ will sucker you with McCarthy’s mandolin, and ‘Long Story Short’ moves some derriere, but they’re slim pickens from a band riding a formula. 
On the other side of the track X have been hangin' in there since their first two albums, Los Angeles and Wild Gift, caused a splash on Slash at the turn of the decade when the postpunk clean-out hit America. They may have been fuelled by some crossAtlantic energy and Exene Cerrenka's colourless female wailing, but John Doe’s heart never strayed far from the badland of mid-American rock’n'roll. See How We Are is probably their best effort sice Wild Gift, it finds and explores a middle ground between the likes of Dream Syndicate and the Go Go’s, in a first side that doesn’t stop for refreshments through high points like ‘Anyone Can Fill Your Shoes’ and Doe’s title ballad. The second side eases up but ‘Left and Right’ is real catchy and ‘Cyrano de Berger’s Back' is another way of doing a love song. 
X’s chance has long since past but they’re still scoring points for their wit, cynicism and rock’n’roll heart—don’t count them out just yet. 
Artist: Ben E King 
Album: Stand By Me 
Record Label: Atlantic 
Artist: Percy Sledge 
Album: When a Man Loves a Woman 
Record Label: Atlantic 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Thanks to some sassy adman in England two of soul music’s greatest stars are enjoying second careers; as a spinoff definitive compilations have been locally released. Although both Ben E King and Percy Sledge are soul legends, their music is poles apart, reflecting the. diversity achieved through Atlantic's distribution deals with regional independent labels. 
The sound of the city is the domain of Ben E King. As lead vocalist of the Drifters in the late 50s and as a solo act, King gave a sophisticated elegance to soul with hits such as ‘Save the Last Dance for Me’ and 'Spanish Harlem.’ ‘Stand By Me’ has been covered by everyone from Muhammad Ali and John Lennon to jock-strapped All Blacks, but no one comes close to the original, with its raw vocal stating commitment against the simple bassline and gut-wrenching strings. 
It’s astounding to think that King recorded four of his greatest hits on just one day, October 27, 1960: ‘Stand By Me,’ ‘Spanish Harlem,' ‘Young Boy Blues’ and ‘First Taste of Love.’ The last two were co-written by apprentice producer Phil Spector, and like most of King's work, must have reached young Willy de Ville across the airwaves. While King gives superlative renditions of Bobby Darin’s ‘Dream Lover’ and ‘lt’s All in the Game,’ hoary standards like ‘I Could Have Danced All Night,’ ‘Moon River’ and ‘Amor’ reflect the one-nighters for the gold-medallion set he’s been doing for the past 25 years. (Solomon Burke called him the “black Andy Williams.”) 
But in 1975 King bounced back with the sublime soft-funk hit ‘Supernatural Thing (Part 1)’ —let's hope the renewed interested created by Levis 501’s inspires another comeback gem. 
It is rare in music that you come across something as perfect as Percy Sledge’s ‘When a Man Loves a Woman.’ Everything is held back — the exquisitely subtle drums, guitar, backing vocals and horns — letting Sledge give the vocal performance of a lifetime. Sledge could never top it — no one could have. 
But in trying, he produced many more soul classics in the same slow, grave, country vein; ‘Take Time to Know Her,’ ‘Warm and Tender Love,’ ‘Out of Left Field,’ ‘What Am I Living For.’ As Motown proved, “if it ain’t broke, why fix it?” Most were written, and all were recorded, within the primitive egg carton walls of Fame Studios in Muscle Shoals, Alabama (now a parking lot) — this compilation finally removes the ghastly hiss from ‘When a Man.’ 
Whereas the urban symphonies of Ben E King brought soul to Broadway, Percy Sledge’s ballads provide the link between gospel and country, with churchified organ rather than great string sections as a trademark. Twenty-one years after ‘When a Man’ gave Sledge his worldwide No 1, he is touring Britain. As his mother warns in ‘Take Time to Know Her,’ “it’s not an overnight thing.” 
Artist: Guns ’n’ Roses 
Album: Appetite for Destruction 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
Guns ’n’ Roses ain’t speed, thrash, death or any other kind of metal really, even if the skulls on the cover may suggest at something like that. (The original cover is actually the robot rapist painting on the inner sleeve which seems to have been regarded unsuitable and banned in some countries.) Guns ’n’ Roses are a bunch of hard livin’ and drinkin’ degenerates with a bad-mouthed singer, who play sleazy kick-ass rock n’ roll. 
But there is a lot more to their style than just fast stuff with cussing. ‘Sweet Child o’ Mine’ and ‘Mr Brownstone’ are fine examples of group effort along the lines of Aerosmith, and such outbursts as ‘lt’s So Easy’ and ‘Paradise City’ have choruses that repeat over in the mind long after playing. Appetite for Destruction is ideal party music for the 80s, but when put into practice it's likely to upset the whole neighbourhood. 
Artist: Emmylou Harris 
Album: Angel Band 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: lan Morris
This is a nice record. The pure, controlled voice, the traditional approach, the high standard of musicianship, and the fact that she used to sing with Gram, man! means you gotta have a certain respect for Emmylou Harris, despite your having to reach for the insulin every 15 minutes or so. 
This is a real Sunday morning after a Saturday night record, its mood gentle and calm, and if you’re feeling really guilty then you can do penance with this collection of cowboy spirituals. On the other hand if you’re not feeling guilty enough then the soothing rhythms of this set could make it the bonking album of the year, but safe sex only, y’unnerstand. 
In any recording session there always seems to be a trade-off between technical perfection and “feel” —do you go for the take that was perfect but pedestrian, or do you keep the one with the bum note because the band was really rocking out? The music on this album, largely acoustic with smooth vocal harmony work from Vince Gill, Carl Jackson and Emory Gordy, was all recorded “live” to digital master apart from one or two dobro and fiddle overdubs. Consequently there’s the odd moment where emmylou’s voice (maybe she had this bloody flu) sounds a little strained, something that would normally have been overdubbed out of existence, but here it adds spark and spontaneity. 
Overall, as with any record of this kind, there’s a certain sameness from track to track, and Emmylou has a slightly cold vocal style which doesn’t help. But for lovers of gently music and country fans alike, this album is a must. What a nice record.
Artist: The Animals 
Album: Their 20 Greatest Hits 
Record Label: EMI 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Along with the Rolling Stones, the Animals had the best band name in rock. And along with the Stones, the Animals were probably the most influential group on early New Zealand rock bands. Mick and Eric fondly imitated the black R&B masters and introduced them to white teenagers, among them the La De Das and the Underdogs. But while many of Mick Jagger’s early R&B covers sound ludicrously blackface now, Eric Burdon’s is the one white R&B voice from that era that can still be listened to without squirming. 
The Animals were better players than the Stones, particularly Alan Price, whose insistent Bachian organ influenced Ray Manzarek, but their careful precision and inability to write their own material and develop a pop audience meant their possibilities waned with the demise of the British blues/beat boom. But what they lacked in punky aggression they made up for in brooding menace; songs like the perrenial ‘House of the Rising Sun’ and ‘We’ve Gotta Get Out of This Place’ build to terrifying crescendos. 
Bruce Ward of EMI NZ has put together many excellent oldies compilations, intelligently selected and reasonably priced, and with this record he’s achieved probably the best Animals collection available anywhere, as overseas the band’s hits are spread over different labels. Everything you ever wanted to hear by the Animals (probably more, at one sitting) is here: ‘Don’t Let Me Be Misunderstood, ’ three of the great Animal Tracks, many R&B covers, the legendary “statement of purpose” ‘lt’s My Life,’ plus two rare Animal classics: ‘The Story of Bo Diddley’ talking blues and Tm Crying.’ 
This record is the dictionary of white R&B. 
Artist: Natalie Cole 
Album: Everlasting 
Record Label: EMI 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
Wonderful album from Ms Cole which works within the boundaries of soul but stretches beyond that. Take her version of the old standard ‘When I Fall in Love,’ now this is a great version. Whereas schlockmeisters like La Streisand and Elaine Page would stomp all over this, Natalie Cole interprets the lyrical flow perfectly. It’s the same with ’ln My Reality’ and ‘I’m the One,’ done with the elan of a classic jazz singer. 
It’s the ballads that really strike home, but ‘Jump Start’ and the title track move and groove with the best of them. One problem is Springsteen’s ‘Pink Cadillac,’ which sounds like it should be on another album. 
An album with very few flaws, with musicians like Marcus Miller and Kenny G, and producers like Reggie Calloway, this is not just everlasting but outstanding. 