Artist: K D Lang and the Reclines 
Album: Angel With a Lariat 
Record Label: Sire 
Reviewed By: lan Morris
Having Dave Edmunds produce your debut album turns out to be something of a two-edged sword. As Dave's number one fan, I love the characteristic chunky, exuberant sound, but his indelible stamp does tend to overshadow the band somewhat. (You’d swear Dave taught lead guitarist Gordie Matthews his licks note-for-note.) 
However it would take an awful lot to drown out K D’s bull-skinning voice, though Dave tries with lots of echo and a vocal-light mix. The louder K D sings, the better she sounds, which means the remake of Patsy Cline’s ‘Three Cigarettes in an Ashtray’ falls a little flat, while their stomping version of the truly awful ‘Rose Garden' is a little beauty — I never thought I'd like that song.
Other tracks, from the tricky ‘Watch Your Step Polka’ to the more conventional ‘Diet of Strange Places’ and the raucous opener “Turn Me Round, burn with a fire all too rare on record, but there’s more than a hint of your King’s Road Cowboy here, an underlying feeling of youngsters experimenting with a genre. Is this a bad thing? 
A powerful debut, a great party record and a take-it-or-leave-it introduction to the voice of K D Lang. It's just a bit hard to know where the band stops and the production takes over. I'd go see them live just to find out. 
Artist: Various 
Album: When the Wind Blows 
Artist: Skank 
Album: Skank Attack EP 
Record Label: Skank 
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne 
Skank Records encouraged the Wind compilation because of what they saw as the “lack of recognition” Wellington bands receive. The immediate reflection is that it is a buzz to hear this record sounding so familiar, due to the fact that Radio Active plays it lots. The stone has hit the water, ripples will hit you.
The Glass kick off with ‘When the Wind Blows’, which uses the classic story’s title line to re-affirm the horror of the blast. It’s a pity this band is no longer with us, for they sound exciting. (I hear they're available on cassette.) The Jonahs follow with their essentially more optimistic rhythms and a fine song. The Primates are given plenty of room with their wonderfully urgent sound of madcap release, verging on the aSyd Barrett. This band is having fun creating this music as two songs merge into one.
Skank Attack offer a remixed version of ‘Harvest of Shame’, proving the more time in the studio, the better chance you have of getting the sound you want. I look forward to these guys' next offering. Wild Poppies use inventive sounds to get the effect of a ‘Walkabout. People are thinking of their sound, the way they want to create an aural illusion. The album closes with the Chosen Ones’ atmospheric ‘Tender Three’, a song which is worth a trip into the studio — you can get those ethereal tones and keep the song’s presence alive. 
When the Wind Blows proves without a doubt that Wellington music is alive and kicking and that it doesn’t sound the same. 
There ain’t no mucking around on Skank Attack’s debut EP. ‘ln Time Out of Time' is an intelligently crafted song, the standout cut, summarising the 60s sound without getting lost in the dirge. ‘Attrition’ is a powerful rock song, showing the band’s tightness and political coherence. The “other side” continues the themes: power and corruption, themes appropriate to music so close to the state/policeftax capital. ‘She Came Down Alone’ harks back to the late 70s with its edge of purpose. The power and beat pick up and ‘She Came Down Alone’ leads us over the edge and into overdrive. This band is well worth checking out. 
Two worthy inaugural releases from Skank Records!
Artist: Patsy Cline 
Album: Sweet Dreams Soundtrack 
Record Label: MCA 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Musically, Sweet Dreams is one of the best film-bios I've seen; shame about the soap opera script. I'd like to know how many people left the theatre and bought the soundtrack though. You’d have to be deaf not to be moved by the voice of Patsy Cline: heartwrenching “torch country” without schmaltz, exquisite phrasing and vocal-inflection (“I ... fall ... to pieeeces .."). She's the greatest influence on women country vocalists, though few come close; unlike many, she can stretch a word without ever breaking her voice. Her gutsy personality comes across, and the backing is the Nashville sound at its best: tasteful, sympathetic, and always saying something. 
The gems on this brief overview are the Cline standards, ‘I Fall to Pieces’, ‘She’s Got You’, ‘Sweet Dreams’, and ‘Walking After Midnight’ with its big band backing. Absolutely sublime is Willie Nelson’s ‘Crazy’ with gorgeous tinkling piano and male backing chorus, so delicate you could blow it away if it wasn't for the power of Patsy’s passion, especially on the final descent: “Cra-zy for tryin’, crazy for dyin’ ..” Included are versions of ‘San Antonio Rose; ‘Your Cheatin’ Heart’ (with less vengeance than ole Hank) and ‘Blue Moon’, which some people think cuts Elvis's version.
A great introduction to Patsy Cline, country’s Dusty. The film is out on video soon. 
Artist: George Strait 
Album: Ocean Front Property 
Record Label: MCA 
Reviewed By: lan Morris 
George Strait's warm baritone and smooth brand of country have been around long enough for him to garner a sizeable fan club in New Zealand. His albums, one a year, reg’lar as Thanksgiving, have been above all tasteful; perfectly played, recorded and produced, they have nonetheless managed to avoid the dullness such polishing can bring. However with Ocean Front Property George has moved away from his usual jazzy western swing feel, and to these ears it's a move in the wrong direction. 
There are some fine moments, particularly the western swing numbers like ‘All My Ex’s Live in Texas’ and ‘You Can't Buy Your Way Out of the Blues’, and the Ace in the Hole Band really cooks on a couple more. The overall impression though is of a bunch of Nashville songwriters just filling their publishing contract quotas; there's not enough great songs, and does the world really need another lacklustre version of ‘Am I Blue’ ? 
A patchy one this time round for George Strait, but let's wait till next Thanksgiving ... 
Artist: The Men They Couldn't Hang
Album: Night of a Thousand Dances 
Record Label: Demon/Jayrem 
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne
The beat is uptempo, a country swing through songs of love and life. This Irish band’s eyes are smiling as they temper this fine album with sweet harmonies and tough, driving rhythms. The gentle sway of the Irish lyric voice is heard aplenty too and it’s never amiss. The influences are there, namely the Clash, and people will liken them to the Pogues. But either this band has no neck or the rope was bad hemp, these guys won't hang. You know what that means: they’ll be around for a while. 
The whip cracks as ‘Rawhide’ hits the groove. This band is having fun. ‘Walkin, Talkin’ (Singing to Myself)' carries the day as surely as the heavenly chorus that starts ‘Kingdom Come’ evokes the winds that curl around the dark rocks of the cliffs of Moher. Listen to the intensely beautiful ‘Scarlet Ribbons; with its aching plea of blood in love, in history ... this band has no trouble in being on either side of the Atlantic. This, to me, is one of the album’s strong points — the ability to re-create two different types of traditional music, American C&W and the Irish ballad, and point to the similarities between the two. We all know the influence that Ireland has had on the greening of America, and also, the latterday “land of opportunity” ethic which offers the Irish the chance to escape the bog. 
And ‘Greenback Dollar’ (“We spend em as fast as we can, with a winning song and a good guitar. It's the only thing we understand — oh boy”) points to this band’s wonderful sense of humour. A must for anyone who likes to kick. up their heels and party up!
Artist: Ramsey Najm 
Album: Language of the Heart 
Record Label: Ode
Reviewed By: Barry Caitcheon
Waiheke Island is definitely hosting a talent in the form of Ramsey Najm. His music is an innovative blend of jazz, classical and folk, drawing on many musicians and varying instruments. It is very warm and gentle, full of peace, and reminiscent of a dominant style of a decade or so ago, although it fosters its own originality.
This album shines out of local releases. It includes fine engineering from Mascot's Victor Grbic, and highly competent musicianship. After several listenings I've warmed to the sound of acoustic guitar, piano, cello and sax, coupled with-a very poetic narrative. Najm describes himself as a “cultural refugee,” clear of the vast wasteland that is America today. The island in the gulf has certainly soothed his soul. His collection of material is very warm, very probing: “As we sit inside our cells, free men pretending, still asking questions that have no answers.”
Artist: Style Council
Album: The Cost of Loving 
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: George Kay 
Screeds have been written about whether or not Weller, when he broke up the Jam, cut off the cause in its prime for a prematurely ageing soul dignity that was eating into the band's energy and anger. Sublime singles like ‘Long Hot Summer; ‘Speak Like a Child’ and albums: like Our Favourite Shop parried most doubts, while alter-egos like the Capuccino Kid and his insistence on being the hippest kid on his block to have rediscovered soul music and leftwing politics made the whole Style Council package a little too precious. Between then and now Weller has been preparing The Cost of Loving, the end result of hovering too long at the danger zone between laidback and laid out, a balancing act he got just right on Our Favourite Shop. But with his sights set no doubt on some late night soul crooning he miscalculated and ends up sounding tired and resigned. 
To give credit, ‘lt Doesn't Matter’ hits the right mixture between nonchalance and funk, a state of affairs sadly reversed on ‘Fairy Tales’, ‘Angel’ and ‘Walking the Night! And ‘We’re Waiting’ is the best song here because of its shimmering reminder of that ‘Long Hot Summer, songs like the tokenist rap/hip hop ‘Right to Go’, complete with party political broadcast, and the weary title track, suggest that the Style Council are running out of ideas. 
Not only that, Weller should know that his soul models like Gaye, Vandross, Mayfield and co, can carry a weak song on the strength of a performance (and most of their albums have been pretty dull), and although he's come a long way as a singer since art school Weller’s still dependent on the songs to carry him. And on The Cost of Loving they don't. 
Artist: Motley Crue 
Album: Girls, Girls, Girls 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
Hey dudes, if ya haven't already got this record you've been missing the party. The makeup is gone coz the Crue now sport the leather street look. But they still play get down dirty rock and roll with a real rebel beat, thanks to drummer Tommy Lee. They tell us all about things on the ‘Wild Side, and then it's ‘Girls, Girls, Girls! for a tour de force of the world’s best strip joints. Then it's a couple of Aerosmith-influenced good boogie numbers, and side one is nicely rounded off with a short semiclassical piece called ‘Nona!
Turn over for some more sleaze-to-please and you'll find ‘All in the Name of …’, a very Motley ‘Five Years Dead’ and the ballad “You're All I Need, which tells the sad, sick story of a guy murdering his lost love written, as most of the album is, by bass man Nikki Sixx. For a finale they play ‘Jailhouse Rock’ live at a frighteningly fast speed. It may be the middle of winter but Girls, Girls, Girls is sure gonna make these rockin’ days and nights a lot hotter. 
Artist: Various 
Album: Round Midnight
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson 
This is the soundtrack to the new Bertrand Tavernier movie, due for screening at the Auckland film festival. The film's central character is an aging bop legend (played by aging bop legend Dexter Gordon) so the music is naturally reflective of that era.
Tavernier chose Herbie Hancock to produce the score and wisely they agreed to avoid straight period imitation in favour of evocation by modern musicians. Hence, while the classic title piece features an arrangement redolent of certain famous 40s/50s versions, this time the lead instrument is Bobby McFerrin’s voice. Other performers on the album include Wayne Shorter, Bobby Hutcherson, Freddie Hubbard, Ron Carter, Tony Williams and Billy Higgins. The film's star Dexter Gordon might almost seem out of context here, yet he renders a warm and lovely ‘Body and Soul’ alongside soloing from John McLaughlin. 
The material is a judicious mix of standards plus a few originals, which blends into an overall atmosphere of tasteful textures for the wee small hours. (Chet Baker even gets in one of his “torchy” vocals). So gently are we charmed that the boisterous rendition of Monk’s ‘Rhythm-a-Ning’ midway through side two comes like a rude awakening. If, on reflection, one might have wished for a greater variety of mood on the album it should be remembered that this music’s purpose is primarily to serve the movie. Nevertheless as jazz albums go, Round Midnight is a good one. 
And as film soundtracks go, it's terrific. 
Artist: Deep Purple
Album: The House of Blue Light 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
The immediately recognisable Hammond organ sound of Jon Lord introduces the big ‘Bad Attitude’ for a taster of the second recording from Deep Purple since reforming three years ago. The maestros are more mainstream than ever before, as this actually isn’t that heavy compare to earlier releases In Rock and Machine Head.
Even so, House of Blue Light is still great and varies from the rhythmic build-up and fade out of lan Paice’s solid drumming in ‘The Unwritten Law’ to the catchy singalong style of ‘Call of the Wild.
Stratocaster master Ritchie Blackmore comes to the fore on the excellent ‘Spanish Archer, while Gillan’s singing and screaming are in fine form (he tells a pingpong popping tale in the bluesy ‘Mitzy Dupree). Once again, lavishly produced by bassist Roger Glover, this album can't fail to please all the rockers and riot police who attended their 1984 concert at the Springs.
Artist: Pink Floyd 
Album: A Nice Pair 
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
Wow man, a re-issue of the first two mind-altering albums from Floyd, complete with Phango dentistry pictured on the cover (initially a rare collector’s item). Poor old Syd was never the same after the making of Piper at the Gates of Dawn, and you can hear why in some of these deranged arrangements. Dave Gilmour stepped in for Saucerful of Secrets, and things till stayed pretty strange, though more stable. If you feel like a change from hearing Dark Side and The Wall, try tripping back 20 years to the beginning. 
Artist: Metal Church
Album: The Dark 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
When Metal Church say they're gonna hit ya like a ton of bricks, they're not kidding. You know all about it as soon as the Seattle five-piece start the fire and speed along in the manner of Metallica. In fact ‘Watch the Children Pray’ could almost be the track ‘Sanitarium’, and vocalist David Wayne sounds not unlike Udo (ex-Accept). If you like those two bands you'll definitely be into this ominous album of fast tight riffing, and want to join the congregation. 
Artist: Nightranger 
Album: Big Live 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
The reason Nightranger have never made any impact at all here is probably because they're such an all-American radio oriented rock band. Unfortunate really, because there's quite a bit of talent in this quintet, especially in the guitar department. Brad Ellis helped out Ozzy on the “Talk of the Devil” tour, and between him and Jeff Watson they do some good interplaying. Underneath the keyboards and choruses there’s material like ‘Rain Come Crashing Down’ and others which deserve a listen at least. 
Artist: Heart
Album: Bad Animals
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
A polished selection of new songs crafted around the well-trained vocals of the lovely Wilson sisters. Anne's trademark high-octave voice is strong as ever, complemented by Nancy’s singing and Ovation guitar playing. Over half of Bad Animals is covers that mostly do work for Heart, but they're in their element on the originals like the great title track, which engulfs the listener into a city and its nightlife. 
Artist: Metallica
Album: Kill ’Em All 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
The kind of band you either love or hate immensely, and those in the “love” category will probably already have bought an import copy already, since it was released overseas in 1983. If not, this is your chance to get the first Metallica album and hear the raw fury that has since captured the eager following of the restless and reckless youth of today. Bassist Cliff Burton, whow was killed in a tour bus accident last year, features on ‘(Anaesthesia) Pulling Teeth, with a frantic solo. The rest is headbanging speed metal to the hilt.
Artist: Robin Trower
Album: Passion
Record Label: Festival
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
Robin Trower still plays that Hendrix-style slow blues rock, but then no one would really want it any other way. Also on Passion is the vocal talents of Davey Pattison, who used to be in Gamma (whaddaya mean, you've never heard of them?) Alternatively, this record can be played either first thing in the morning to slowly wake up to, or late at night to quickly drift off to sleep.
Artist: Dead Kennedys 
Album: Bedtime for Democracy
Record Label: Jayrem
Reviewed By: BC
Jello Biafra and cohorts are presently facing charges for publishing explicit sexual acts on their “Frankenchrist” poster. Their album cover features a space shuttle rammed in one eye of the Statue of Liberty, the other sheds tears. The shock treatment is as strong as ever. America sucks, and the western world is in decay. Tracks leap off the album at the speed of sound, similar to all their previous material. 'Chickenshit Conformist, ‘Rambozo the Clown, ‘Do the Slag’ Allblack as ..., angry ‘and strangled in cynicism. Dead Kennedys-by-numbers, but valid stuff all the same. 
Artist: Hot Chocolate 
Album: The Very Best of ... 
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: KB
It may be strange to learn that I'm a romantic man, though the continental sigh of Julio Iglesias moves me not, and the tinkle of Richard Clayderman leaves me cold. But when it comes to Errol Brown and the sad tale of ‘Emma’ and the shedding of ‘Tears on the Telephone’, well my heart just melts. Certainly not one bad track, from the social commentary of ‘Brother Louie’, the inspirational ‘Everyone’s a Winner' and the super-schmaltz of ‘lt Started With a Kiss’. But even princes of romance like Errol need to get tough and assert themselves, so we have the epic ‘Heaven is in the Back Seat of My Cadillac’. Great collection of pop soul, with only ‘Disco Queen’ and ‘Heartache No 9’ missing — and yes, it does include the ‘You Sexy Thing’ remix. 
Artist: Warumpi Band 
Album: Go Bush! 
Record Label: Parole
Reviewed By: CB
Out of nowhere has arrived this album from a band that could be the Australian Herbs, if only they had more luck finding an individual sound. If you were moved by ‘My Island Home' on RWP, that gives an idea of what the Warumpi Band are like at their best — ballads sung by Aborigine George Rurranbu, who has a passionate, aching voice. Guitarist Neil Murray provides a sparse production which sometimes suffers from being a bit tasteful and safe, and reminiscent of the Triffids and Hoodoos. But on George’s ballads, ‘Yolngu Boy’, ‘Secret War’, ‘Tjiluru’, the tortured anguish of the oppressed Aborigine race hits home. As the angry ‘From the Bush' says, “Keep your opera house, keep your MCG” ... 
Artist: Debbie Harry
Album: Rockbird
Record Label: Chrysalis
Reviewed By: PT 
Back in the heyday of Blondie, the records were usually as seductive as her image. That's because Chris Stein and the other guys could spin some very stylish music to dress her in. But Stein's work here has all but lost its thread and the lady’s collaborations with keyboardist Seth Justman (J Geils Band) are no substitute. So here I am left looking at the luscious sleeve photo and wondering why Debs never really learned to sing. Maybe | should just be grateful that at least her beautician isn't still that H R (Alien) Giger. 
Artist: James Horner 
Album: The Name of the Rose soundtrack 
Record Label: Avanguard
Reviewed By: PT
I haven't seen the film nor read the book, but I'm repeatedly playing much of this album — which must mean that it functions okay without any preconceived imagery. Composer James Horner has fashioned his-score from original medieval church music (sung in Latin) incorporated with his own blend of acoustic and synthesised atmospherics. Instruments that are tapped or plucked create simple yet effective tensions against deft use of electronics. Most of the music involves brooding, rumbling bass noises that, one imagines, accompany cinematic dark doings in morbid monasteries. An album that whets one’s appetite for the movie and can-pay dividends without it. Just don't expect, “Hey, hey, we're the monks!” 
Artist: Whoopi Goldberg 
Album: Original Broadway Show Recording 
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: PT
New Zealanders were introduced to Ms Goldberg via her adaptation of The Colour Purple. Hip Americans had long been aware of her considerable talents as a comedienne. This live show features four of her characterisations. ‘Little Girl' and ‘Crippled Lady’ suffer from the lack of visuals but ‘Surfer Chick’ is a devastating put-down of West Coast valley girl attitudes and speech patterns. Side one consists of 33 minutes of a New York street junkie routine. It begins in hilarious brilliance but later degenerates into post-war liberal moralising and finishes by flogging an old Shelley Berman routine. 