Artist: Los Lobos 
Album: By the Light of the Moon 
Record Label: Slash 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke
Early each morning in East LA, Mexican immigrants wait on street corners hoping to be picked up for a day's work at exploitative rates. Such was the lifestyle that beckoned the wetback about to head north in Los Lobos' last album, How Will the Wolf Survive? The heartbreaking lines “Speak softly, don’t wake the baby... And I’ll send for you baby, it’s just a matter of time” expressed the forlorn faith of centuries of immigrants looking for a better world. By the Light of the Moon is part three of Los Lobos’ epic novel on the plight of the Mexican in the 20th Century; it’s the best album I’ve heard this year. 
The first thing that strikes you is that Los Lobos have played down the rootsy aspects of their sound, wanting to hone their own voice and avoid being a “cartoon of Mexican-Americans" destined to flavour-of-the-month longevity. The accordian player takes a back seat — the emphasis is on songs rather than a style. So T-Bone Burnett’s presence is more overt than before and there is only one traditional Mexican song, ‘Prenda del Alma.’ But David Hidalgo's aching high tenor and Louis Perez's lyrics remain the key elements in Los Lobos’ identity, and they have gone from strength to strength. 
Hidalgo’s wonderful weary but unbeaten voice relates tough tales home in the superb opener ‘One Time, One Night' and ‘ls This All There Is?’ The news is bad. “All searching for the promised land I Where’ twisted hands don’t mean a thing / Asking to.themselves, is this all there is?” In ‘The Hardest Time,' surely the finest song ever written about motherhood by a male, a young mother writes, “Life is better, not like long ago,” but she pines for her girlhood and tears up her letter. ‘River of Fools’ is another Hidalgo weepie, with torn photos and tearstreaked faces at the border.
It's not all despair however, Los Lobos have hope and faith that life will improve; meanwhile they party to forget. Though the stompers are driven by bar-band guitars rather than an accordian, and the Tex-Mex feel is subdued for R&B, Los Lobos remain the most authentic and eclectic group since the Band (and sometimes they make the Band seem like sincere dabblers a la Ry Cooder). On the Cesar Rosas rockers however, Burnett's production dominates so that it could be his Marshall Crenshaw record we’re listening to. It's a shame he brought in two drummers (including the overrated Golden Palomino Anton Fier) to assist Louis Perez — he was the driving force of Wolf. 
This is a great album, one you can dance and shout to, laugh and cry to. Like The Band, I’ll be listening to it in 10 years. 
Artist: Sly & Robbie 
Album: Rhythm Kings 
Records Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan 
In the beginning was the “big bang," life and rhythm formed as one. Man emerged with the proverbial ants in his pants, ready to scratch that itch and get on the good foot. Get the picture: man was born to rock the house, shake that money maker, slap them cakes, to move to the groove. Baby, born to raise hell and get funky. 
Sly and Robbie know this essential truth and reveal all on Rhythm Killers, an album of such murderous funk it’s downright frightening. 
It’s interesting that this is funk of the old school, 70s flavoured grooves that James Brown cut and a virtual homage to George Clinton. The whole first side is a version, in three parts, of the Ohio Players’ ‘Fire.’ The first, a straight edge attack, with great vocals from Bootsy Collins and Gary “Mudbone” Cooper, exParliament singer. This sets the tone, with the steady rhythmic flow of Sly and Robbie, and producer Bill Laswell building up the banks of Philly strings — adding counterpoint to the pulse of the song. This merges with the great 'Boops (Here to Go),’ raps by Shinehead and Rammellzee, a very severe kick drum from Sly and the strings linking everything up. Then a real surprise with ‘Let’s Rock,’ a nice Nile Rodgers stroke on guitar. P-funk vocals and Sly playing drum patterns like Led Zeppelin’s John Bonham — this one's real wild.
The second side opens with Allen Toussaint’s 'Yes, We Can,’ with Grandmixer D S T on turntables and a sense of musical space that’s a delight. Boom boom drums send the message, just like in the Phantom comics, that funk is its own reward. The title track is perhaps the only reggae track, with toasting from Shinehead in the speed MC style, but once again Laswell unleashes those melodic strings and the “prepared" piano of Bernie Worrell, a clashing of opposites in fine dialectical style. Closing with the almost romantic 'Bank Job’ with a bassline that's a bone shaker. 
Like last year's Language Barrier, a move away from reggae — except for the toasting, the input is all funk, not the B-Boy cutups I expected, but a revolutionary return to the roots of modern rhythm. 
Sly and Robbie —- in the place to be, and here to go—and that’s a fact, Jack'. 
Artist: LL Cool J 
Album: Bad 
Record Label: Def Jam 
Artist: Various 
Album: The New Style 
Record Label: Def Jam 
Reviewed By: Peter Grace 
“Even when I'm braggin’ I’m being sincere.” LL Cool J is a B-Boy prodigy, rap’s gifted child. He’s fast, cocky, and probably Def Jam’s wittiest and most articulate artist. 
On Bad, the follow-up to Radio, though, LL seems to be doing it all himself. Rick Rubin has nothing to do with this effort, and his freshness and humour are sadly lacking here. Where Run DMC’s Raising Hell drew on heavy metal, LL Cool J uses old rock ’n’ roll quotes like ‘Johnny B Goode’ (in the opening track ‘Go, Cut Creator, Go'). And although six ago I’d have been thrilled by another clever twist in hip hop sources, today I see the rock ’n’ roll extracts as a schoolbook exercise. 
Nevertheless, this album is definitely as listenable and danceable as Radio, and a must buy for those reasons alone. I particularly like ‘The Do-Wop’s doo-wop, and ‘I Need Love,’ the first rap ballad of any note. 'l'm Bad’ uses a gratuitous Shaft backing, but it's strong and sensational. There's also the self-effacing parody which I enjoy in most Def Jam records, and the almost traditional brouhaha on the end of side one, where LL Cool J tells us the “Joke’s on you, Jack!” for buying yet another one of his records. 
It’s the New Style is a compilation CBS New Zealand have put together to meet the interest in Def Jam here. It’s a very good compilation of both the hip hop and pop ballad sides of their output. Although the work only dates from the CBS deal with Def Jam, the Beastie Boys’ ‘She’s On It,’ LL Cool J’s ‘I Can’t Live Without My Radio’ and Juice’s ‘The Rain’, are all included. Plus there’s LL's original version of ‘Rock the Bells,’ which is magnificent, and the less commercially successful Junkyard Band, Chuck Stanley, Tashan, Original Concept and Public Enemy. 
Of these Public Enemy and Original Concept are the best, and it’s vibrant hip hop, rich in the history of the music, and the intelligence of these Long Island university graduates marks, for me, the future of hip hop and Def Jam, hits or no hits. 
Artist: General Kane 
Album: In Full Chill 
Record Label: Motown 
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
What happened to big mean mindless boring funk? One place you sure as hell wouldn't look for it would be on the Motown label, where music don’t get that heavy. Yet here's a record to break the black yuppie mould from funk veteran Mitch “General Kane” McDowell, who has previously recorded as General Cane on the Tabu label, and as Booty People on 70s label Far Out (wow!). 
Rap has got its due recognition this decade but it’s time for funk to get its reward. Sure, founder James Brown and chief freak George Clinton get a bit of attention, but black music’s most progressive genre is being ignored. Here this fine man is facing the crucial questions, like “How can I roller skate, through a herd of buffalo?” Meaty stuff and the funky riddums are even tuffer! 
Some may label these fine things as “sub-Clinton” — so what? What’s wrong with being sub-Clinton if he’s the foremost funk adventurer? George would sure be proud of having written ‘Buffalos,’ ‘All the Way Up’ or ‘Wrassle.’ Plus you get last year’s rapper ‘Crack Killed Applejack,' the weeny-bit trite ‘Hairdooz’ and the beautiful slow number ‘Can't Let Go.’ 
So much fun and it’s not an import. Mitch McDowell only has to follow this one up and he's gonna be one of the main men of funk. 
Artist: Tom Verlaine 
Album: Flashlight 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
After two years in some sort of artistic obscurity — spent no doubt contemplating modernistic abstractions in some New York attic in Greenwich Village and receiving periodic visits from frail, white, intense heroines bearing rich red wines and the latest French novellas — Tom Verlaine is back. 
If Byrne is the consummate eccentric then Verlaine is the wraith, phantom perfectionist, a writer and guitarist whose pain and beauty have stretched over six albums and four record companies. With his last two albums, Words from the Front and Cover veering towards a sparser guitar landscape in favour of percussion and keyboards, Flashlight makes a flawless return to the rich, melodic guitar tension that made the two Television albums so enthralling and his first two solo albums so engaging. 
Few guitarists or songwriters have been able to blend fragile insights with tough sentiments or storylines as naturally as Verlaine. His blend of narrative and descriptive writing in songs like ‘At 4am’ and ‘Annie's Tellin’ Me' capture a storyline as rich as any Tom Waits song. And when words can be transcended then his guitar speaks heaps as in ‘The Funniest Thing' and the Close Encounters set-up of ‘The Scientist Writes a Letter.’ And just when you thought he couldn’t equal 'Venus' or ‘Days’ for beauty or clarity, ‘Song' blends the best guitar line and sentiment that he's wielded since those heady days. 
... Tom Verlaine is back. 
Artist: Courtenay Pine 
Album: Journey to the Urge Within 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson 
Over the past year the British media have been according Courtenay Pine the status of a major pop star. Not only is this London saxophonist young, gifted and black, he’s a very snappy dresser and an articulate spokesman for his music. Sort of an English equivalent to Wynton Marsalis. 
And like Marsalis before him, Pine has packed his debut album replete with ideas and technique, almost as if to justify all the attention. Side two, for example, opens with the slinky cool of a pop song (and features a lovely vocal from a one-time Supreme). On the next track Pine’s tenor leads an octet in a fiery workout that shows his debt to John Coltrane. From there it's a change to bass clarinet, duetting with a scat vocalist to the solitary support of double bass. Elsewhere on the album Pine makes extensive use of soprano sax as well. 
At times the album seems more bustled along than deliberately paced. In its 10 tracks—a lot on a jazz album — Pine not only seems wanting to show the extent of his abilities but also the full range of his technique. Wayne Shorter's ‘Delores' is given a straightforward reading but then finished with in three-and-a-half minutes. 
But there is much to rejoice about on Journey to the Urge Within. After all, too much going on is far preferable to not enough. At 22, Pine is already a prodigious talent with a variety of cleanly executed tones. He is also — that Marsalis factor again — another believer in maintaining jazz as an acoustic music. No synths; no sampling. And if, in regarding himself as a consolidator rather than a revolutionary, that means his influences are often evident, it also means he’s developing from an invaluable base. As Courtenay Pine matures, astute jazz listeners will want to stay listening. 
Artist: World Party 
Album: Private Revolution 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
Karl Wallinger, the mind in this particular machine, emerged from Wales and spent his apprenticeship with Mike Scott’s Waterboys, a band that mixed bombast with Dylan. 
Wallinger, like his ex-boss, has obviously rifled through Dylan’s arrangements and book of metaphors to come up with the dry nasal deliveries and images of ‘The Ballad of the Little Man,' and the ’Trouble Down on the Farm' and ‘White Horse’s cliches of ‘Hawaiian Island World.’ 
Wallinger, complete with beatnik shades and the spoils of materialism on the cover, may be besotted with the spirit of Zimmerman but on ‘Private Revolution’ he creates a nice piece of feet-on-the-ground cynicism, and ‘Ship of Fools’ (despite the blatant plagiarism of two of Dylan’s favourite characters — the joker and the fool) has a chorus that could move statues; but the winner has to be ‘All Come True,’ a song of easy charm, great tune, and a pointer for Wallinger if he wants to leave Bob, the guru, behind. 
So, World Party have a hint of potential: Wallinger has over-reacted to the exaggerations of his- involvement with the Waterboys to steal from the past of the world's most credible writer. In the future he shouldn't feel that need. 
Artist: Jackie Wilson 
Album: The Classic Jackie Wilson 
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
One of the first records I ever owned was Jackie Wilson's ‘Lonely Teardrops,' this scratched 7” Brunswick that I played non-stop. Something in the way his voice soared with an operatic yelp that got me for life. 
Jackie Wilson's style owes to the diverse influences of the Mills Brothers, Al Jolson, Mario Lanza and the black R&B of Billy Ward’s Dominos, who Jackie sang with, replacing Clyde McPhatter. All these influences flow in soulful torrents: this is what Jackie Wilson said. 
He talks the blues with ‘Doggin' Around' and 'A Woman, a Lover, a Friend,' deep Southern soul warmer than fried chicken. As an ex-boxer he could belt the hell out of any song that came his way, the rock and roll of ‘Baby Workout' (which always reminds me of Elvis Presley), the ornate ballads of ‘Am I the Man', and 'You Know What it Means,’ and above all the haunting 'No Pity (in the Naked City).’ 
After the original slew of hits things slowed down until the 1966 Chicago soul comeback with ‘Whispers (Getting Louder)’ and 'I Get the Sweetest Feeling’ that still pack dancefloors and break hearts. 
Jackie Wilson was one of the world’s most dynamic stage performers, a bewildering array of jumps, splits and twists that influenced both James Brown and Elvis Presley. It was during one of his shows in 1975 that he collapsed and lapsed into a coma, which he never came out of, dying on January 21,1984. I’ve still got that scratched ‘Lonely Teardrops' 7" and will never part with it. 
Artist: Siouxsie and the Banshees 
Album: Through the Looking Glass 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
Though it's been a long time since there’s been a Siouxsie and the Banshees album worth admiring, their cover versions to date (basically limited to the Beatles' "White Album”) have always been tasteful enough. Perhaps then a whole album full of covers ain’t such a bad idea; after all, Nick Cave got away with it last year, and the Residents’ series of American Composers cover albums is planned to run to the year 2000. 
Through the Looking Glass has the Banshees taking on the likes of Television, Roxy Music and Kraftwerk — basically the period just prior to the Banshees’ formation in 1977, along with older songs from the Doors, etc, and a still older one from Billie Holiday. 
Some of it works well: Iggy Pop’s ‘The Passenger’ suits Siouxsie’s monotone, and John Cale's 'Gun' is dramatic enough (in his version anyway) for the Banshees’ purposes. Other songs, particularly a gross-out ‘This Wheel’s on Fire,’ don’t come across as such inspired choices though, and the self-production veers towards a slick, yet sterile touch. 
Like the NME says, this is the best Siouxsie and the Banshees album for years. But when you consider the quality of the original artists’ versions (exceeded nowhere here by the Banshees) and the quality of those last three Banshees albums, is that really much of an achievement? 
Artist: The Cure 
Album: Kiss Me Kiss Me Kiss Me 
Record Label: Fiction 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
Catch Robert Smith with his pretensions down, and you'll find a rock and roll heart ringing with pure melodies. Too often however, it’s hard to get at, hidden by the murky production of works like Pornography or the affected fey nature of Japanese Whispers. Coming to this double album, I was eager to determine whether that elusive spirit, found elsewhere in the odd inspired tune and Smith’s fully-charged guitar licks, was still there, lurking behind the ponderous lyric sheet. 
The Head on the Door had plenty of musical variety and panache (along with the lyrical equivalent of diarrheoa) but on the whole this is a stylised exercise; even where the Cure try their hardest (side two's ‘Why Can't I Be You?’), the effect, though not displeasing to the ear, still fails to take a hold of the listener. 
The major fault appears to be the dominant rle played by Laurence Tolhurst’s keyboards. Smith’s guitar has always been the most interesting thing about the Cure, but it doesn't really get a decent outing on Kiss Me .... He lets sax out for side four’s ‘lcing Sugar' but there is little other derivation from the keyboard-heavy mix. 
Side three is overall the most interesting music-wise, an effect spoilt by the dreadful routine funk of ‘Hot Hot Hot' and the most profound inanities lyric-wise; “and all I want is to hold you like a dog.” Yuk. 
1987’s Cure: getting long in the tooth and short on new ideas; that, friends, is the long and the short of it. 
Artist: Neil Young and Crazy Horse 
Album: Life 
Record Label: Geffen 
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne 
Okay Neil, so it has finally come real, the time has come to tell us the story of “life.” It’s claimed to be a return to form; he’s done it before, so why not again? The man has, in the past, been one of the few to sense the mood of the times. Neil the love-smith, the politico, the down and outer — he has pulled on so many disguises that you thought he had it sussed: big bucks, love, religion, politics, the American way. 
‘Mid-east Vacation’ is one of those typically weird songs that he manages to write, you're not sure which side of the border he's on. "Watching Highway Patrol whittling with my knife" to the "Rambo in the disco /1 was shooting with my feet." The American obsession with law and order — remember to read, their law, their order. ‘Long Walk Home' opens with the classic line, “If Liberty was a little girl... how would she like us now? We balance the power from hour to hour, giant guns raised.” It is an anthem to America, poor little America fighting for truth and justice. I suppose we should imagine the mocking crowds as America winds her way to Calvary. 
The album doesn't show him discovering new ground, though musically it is more acceptable recent work. ‘lnca Queen' and ‘We Never Danced' will have those old eyes watering. HM buffs will dwell on his pyrotechnical displays, and his devotees will appreciate his dig at Geffen Records in ‘Prisoners of Rock 'n' Roll. ’ But no, I don’t think this album is a return to form. We know Neil’s admiration for Ron and nuclear power. “Good morning America, how are you?” Canadian was once his response. 
Artist: Suzanne Vega 
Album: Solitude Standing 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
With ‘Luka’ all over the radio, everybody now knows about Suzanne Vega. Last year there was only a small sprinkling of would-be cultists excitedly clutching her first album, hoping Ms Vega would prove the greatest thing in urban folkiedom since Joni Mitchell. This reviewer even nominated Suzanne Vega as debut of the year. Now, with Solitude Standing, I'm reassessing my expectations. 
For starters Vega has changed bands. Out go the first album’s subtle and spacious instrumentations that so superbly complemented her acoustic guitar. In comes a fairly standard lineup, synth centred and with a rockist boost to the drums. On a strong, conventional song structure like ‘Luka’ it all works very well — the pop chart crossover has been attained. But on more introspective pieces the backing not only flattens out subtleties, it leaves Vega’s voice sounding distanced, even passionless on occasion. 
Then there's the songwriting. Although Suzanne Vega covered an extraordinary range of styles, the overall standard was so consistently high that the album felt tightly coherent. This time out the writing ranges over 10 years and varies accordingly, leaving the album with an unsettling lack of focus. 
Nonetheless there are some recent songs which show Vega’s craft to full advantage. There’s the paradox of ‘Luka’: a catchy pop song about domestic violence (though I still believe its narrator speaks more like a wife than a child). The album's title track has similar success. Over a driving beat, Vega's cool delivery suits her image of loneliness as a ghostly maiden. 
If one track encapsulates the conflicting values of this album it is 'Wooden Horse.’ Drawing her inspiration from the true story of a young European man locked alone in a cellar for his first 17 years, Vega creates a delicate narration of seemingly mute eloquence. However the musical accompaniment of syncopated percussion accents and brooding bass almost tips it into dullness. An uneasy balancing act is finally achieved. On the evidence of this whole album, Suzanne Vega’s future musical direction seems just as precariously poised. 
Artist: Jessie Johnson 
Album: Shockedelica 
Record Label: A&M
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
Ah, yes, there was a time when any black male singer worth his stretch limo looked like a pimp. Lots of wild suits and the all important hat. Check out Sly Stone, Isaac Hayes and even James Brown. Now it’s good to see Jessie Johnson continue in the grand tradition, by wearing a leopard skin pillbox hat on the cover and having Sly Stone cut loose on 'Crazay.' The video was out of this world, Jessie and Sly in royal attire and the 10-piece band looking sharp as a flick-knife. 
Just like this album, seven real pumpers and three ballads, locked up tight in this percolating rhythm, like Prince circa Controversy period. But this ain’t no old styled jam. Stuff like ‘She (I Can’t Resist)' mixes that “ring my bell” guitar with a bulldozer rhythm, and ‘Crazay’ has to be one of the best hard funk outings ever. Nice sparse beats with hot horn lines underline Jessie's vocals, emphatic fun funk, which is just class all the way. 
Artist: Swing Out Sister 
Album: It’s Better to Travel 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor
This album is being pushed hard, as are most jazzy-sounding pop groups these days, but for once the powers that be are pushing a band that could go further than No 1. Comprising of A Certain Ration keyboardist Andy Connell, drummer Martin Jackson and St Martin's School of Art graduate Corinne Drewery, SOS play as smart as they dress. It's Better to Travel is their debut and far from perfect; likewise, it's far ahead of their competition. 
Production is level-headed but rushed; like Heaven 17's Penthouse & Pavement, the band see to be getting the tunes down quick and saving the lush production and arrangements for the 12" single versions. Thus 'Breakout' appears as the least fussy of pop songs and ’Surrender’ as a rough-cut gem — you’ll have to listen more than once to realise how good these songs are. 
That's a rare quality: a whole pop album that doesn’t wet itself trying to get your attention Top 10 riffs poke out from beneath busy, almost drab songs (‘lt’s Not Enough,’ 'Fooled By a Smile') to catch you just before boredom sets in. Also enjoyable is Andy Connell’s habit of not quite hitting the sweet note. His tunes are always one not to the side of perfect, which means they’re going to avoid being labelled old hat in a month. Corinne's vocals are straightforward, she can't sing as well as Sade but she can sing much faster, rapping quickly between verses. The songs often mean she has to sing slow, which puts her at a disadvantage. Hopefully by album number two the lads will realise that Corinne's an up girl and not interested in all that moody late-night stuff. 
There’s even a generous Bond quote in the album's closing instrumental “theme,” a direct lift from the countdown sequence in You Only Live Twice. And Corinne’s got a bob and Andy's got a polo neck and there are lyrics like “Don’t say you’re sorry/ Don't even try / Too late to worry I Too late to cry!” Weee! Pop music! 
Artist: Let’s Get Naked 
Album: Funky Dunedin 
Record Label: Rational 
Reviewed By: Barry Caitcheon 
In the heatwave of fresh Dunedin music, Rational Records have squeezed tequila from a four-track. Local programmers will need to isopropyl their heads when they spout quality and production arguments for not playing this local music. What's the bet they don’t play this album from Let’s Get Naked. More pity them. 
Jonathan Richman rolls into yer average Kiwi joker and back: "No tiff over what riff / No hysterics over anybody’s lyrics." Maybe from the industry’s point of view the wording is "unfortunately honest,” but these tracks jam through some wonderful variations on funk, and with the exception of a couple of tracks there’s a strong sense of purpose. ‘Chimps' (rivetting beat), ‘Babies,’ ‘Joe’s a Fiend,’ and the pre-released ‘Funky Dunedin,’ show that for each face there is a reflection — and resultant humour. Not unlike Auckland theatre duo the Front Lawn, where everyday roles and situations are satirised to the bone.
There are shades of the Clash’s Sandinista, but without the climaxing grit. It is especially in the bass, sax and vocals that the songs are all held in suspension ... a sort of dne-ness. Good groove poems to be read in their own right. Elephunkadelic stuff. 
Artist: Ozzy Osbourne/Randy Rhoads 
Album: Tribute 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
“Goodbye to friends, goodbye to all the past, I guess that we’ll meet in the end.” 
Randy Rhoads’ life tragically ended in a plane crash on March 19, 1982 at the age of 25, and the world lost one of the finest and most talented musicians ever. Now Ozzy has finally released the only quality live recording of Randy playing guitar with him in concert, and it really is an amazing tribute of total respect for his best friend. When Ozzy left Black Sabbath to form his own Blizzard of Ozz, he discovered the incredible ability of Randy and quickly recruited him for two albums and tours of the most exciting rock music imaginable. His speedy fills and diminished scales in the songs ‘I Don’t Knox’ and ‘Crazy Train’ were like nothing ever heard before, and his solos on ’Mr Crowley’ and ‘Suicide Solution’ peak into dizzying heights of fiery fretwork. Randy's years of classical training are obvious on ‘Revelation (Mother Earth),' and ’Dee’ is an acoustic masterpiece he wrote for his mother Delores, who owns the music school where Randy was both student and teacher. Tribute is not only an excellent documentation of Randy with Ozzy at his best, but the greatest live album for 1981, 1987, or any year! 
Artist: Whispers 
Album: Just Gets Better With Time 
Record Label: WEA 
Artist: Lakeside 
Album: Power 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
So it’s time to chill out, get mellow, time to count how many cashmere sweaters you own and sip Pepper-Absolut over ice. What better ambience than these two fine acts from Solar Records in laidback Los Angeles. 
Lakeside hit the groove with that “bass in your face” ‘Fantastic Voyage’ years ago, and continue to show class on Power. Tracks like ’Just a Touch Away’ and ‘Bullseye’ are real nice smoochers, delicate like beaujolais. But if romance is not your thing, there are two great dances in ‘Still Feeling Good’ and ‘Relationship.’ Production by Babyface and Stephen Shockley follow the traditional Solar pattern — hot tunes at a cool tempo. 
Solar have this rich upwardly mobile sound, apartment soul for consenting adults. The Whispers are the champs of this genre. Lots of “let’s go to bed and crinkle the satin sheets" grooves and drum machines that pop like champagne corks. One side crucial mid-tempo dance like ‘Rock Steady’ and ‘I Want You,’ side two the big ballands like the title track and soulful ‘Give it to Me,’ each handled by lead vocalist Scotty Scott. 
Two examples of smooth city soul that help heat up the night.
Artist: The Fold 
Album: The Fold
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
What made the Fold’s ‘Women in Red' a better than average single was the fact that it seemed so well thought out — the Fold not merely overcoming the limitation of a drums-bass-vocals lineup, but turning it severely to their own advantage. But on this, their third record, the effect is more strained than on that 12” single. They have attempted to overcome it by using a "live” recording technique in the basement of Auckland’s Lab Studios. This works best on the likes of ‘Crowd,’ where the drums fill out the sound, coming from what sounds like a very echoey space. It's a similar effect, I guess, to what the Triffids were aiming for on their In the Pines woolshed recording, but the comparisons end where production and digital mastering step into the Triffids’ recording. 
A more brooding version of ‘Need of Want’ (off Outnumbered by Sheep) is one of the highlights of the album, but unless you can actually derive some perverse enjoyment from the Fold's harrowing visions on this record, it is best avoided. Some of you more adventurous souls will no doubt ignore me. All I can say to you is good luck in the labyrinth. Enjoy the unenjoyable. 
Artist: Johnny Winter 
Album: Third Degree 
Record Label: Alligator 
Artist: Albert Collins 
Album: Cold Snap 
Record Label: Alligator 
Artist: Lil’ Ed and the Blues Imperials 
Album: Rough-housin’ 
Record Label: Alligator 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
This batch of three new releases from the Chicago-based Alligator label continues the company’s good work in the recording of modern electric blues. 
Johnny Winter’s album is his third, and best, for Alligator, and possibly his best since he first burst out of the Texas bar scene in the late 60s. He works again with the crack rhythm section of Albert Collins’s Icebreakers, bassist Johnny B Gayden and drummer Casey Jones, who has since left Collins. Winter also reunites with his original bassman Tommy Shannon, and drummer Uncle John “Red” Turner.
Together they stormed out of Texas and Johnny became the newest guitar star, but the band broke up in 1970. If anything, they play better together now than ever, working out fiercely on Elmore James’s ‘Shake Your Money Maker,’ Freddie King’s ‘See You Baby,’ and Johnny Guitar Watson’s ‘Broke and Lonely.’ Dr John helps out on piano, and as an extra bonus Winter plays National steel guitar on record for the first time in years.
The Master of the Telecaster, Albert Collins, turns in another fine, funky performance on Cold Snap. The band includes his long-time cohort Gayden, as well as veteran jazzers Mel Brown (guitar) and Jimmy McGriff (organ).
It is more of the Collins mixture — lightning flashes of shrieking upperregister guitar and dryly laconic vocals (‘I Ain’t Drunk’), funky grooves or high energy shuffle instrumentals (‘Fake ID’). A minor criticism, but Collins does not seem quite as involved as he does on Showdown, the Grammy-winning collaboration with Robert Cray and Johnny Copeland. 
Lil’ Ed and the Blues Imperials are from the junior end of the Chicago blues scale. The album title tells the story. This young quartet plays upbeat music in the intense partying mood of the late, great slide guitarist J B Hutto, uncle and mentor to Lil’ Ed Williams. Williams writes most of the material, but also covers Rufus Thomas's ‘Walkin’ the Dog,’ Arthur Crudup’s ‘Mean Old Frisco,’ and Percy Mayfield’s ‘You Don’t Exist Anymore.’ 
Artist: Randy Travis 
Album: Always and Forever 
Record Label: Warner Bros 
Artist: Steve Earle and the Dukes 
Album: Exit 0 
Record Label: MCA 
Reviewed By: Mark Kennedy 
Now Randy Travis is a man with a golden voice. Hot on the heels of his million selling debut Storms of Life comes this follow-up. If, like me, you fell for his easy, relaxed, and oh-so-mature singing the first time around, this album will not disappoint. Unlike his close rivals Dwight Yoakam and Steve Earle, Travis steers away from making waves and putting political bite into his songs. So he’s been rewarded with membership to the Grand Ole Opry, the youngest ever member at 28.
No, Randy’s meal ticket is his weary baritone, which carries all the resignation of his esteemed forebears. ‘Too Gone Too Long,' 'My House,' and ‘Good Intentions’ are all fine showcases of his ability. ‘What’ll You Do About Me?' — my personal favourite — has the humour I found missing on his first effort.
Recommended for fans of great country singing and tacky jewellery. 
Steve Earle also weighs in with his second outing, but the story he’s telling ain’t no picnic. Comparisons with one B Springsteen are so obvious I’ll ignore them except to say he has a similar sympathy for the small man and the victim of circumstance. Images of Steinbeck's dirt road characters abound, especially on ‘The Rain Came Down,' a particularly effective story of dustbowl struggling, and the best song about farming since the Band’s ’King Harvest (Has Surely Come).’ In fact the superb ‘lt's All Up to You' reminds me of Robbie Robertson’s legendary group.
Anyone remotely interested in country-flavoured rock will be delighted with this record, as it's quite the most consistent collection of new songs so far this year. 
Artist: Judas Priest 
Album: Priest... Live
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
As the crowd chants “Priest, Priest, Priest!" it’s the sound of synths that indicate the band have arrived on stage for the evening. Up till a couple of years ago that was unheard of at a Judas Priest concert, but times change and it makes a chilling start for ‘Out in the Cold’ and the Whole Turbo tour. With material taken from the last five album, the set includes the mighty ‘Metal Gods' and ‘Electric Eye,’ later getting into some ‘Freewheel Burning’ and ‘Living After Midnight.’ There is of course the powerful dual guitaring from Glenn and KK throughout and Rob Halford still proving he has one of the best rock voices in the business. This band deliver the goods live and anyone unfamiliar with these songs is in for a treat.