Artist: Bruce Springsteen 
Album: Tunnel of Love 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
It ain’t easy being Bruce. After the overkill of the mid-80s, is anyone still interested? CBS’s multi-hit album strategy for Thriller and Born in the USA was exemplary marketing, but also may have killed their two greatest artists’ careers stone dead. Things backfired with last year’s box set, where success bred excess. Once the excitement of hearing Springsteen live wore off, it quickly became an indulgent dinosaur. The lack of judgement reflected by its size and musical bombast (“WAR! THUMP! WHAT is it good for?!!" and “BOOORN in the YEW-ESS-AY!") gave even hardened Bruce fans (ie, those who like all the car chat and references to “little babies”) doubts. 
But Bruce ain’t dumb. Realising the folly of trying to write another album of hits, he’s taken a left turn and returned with an album that’s more Nebraska than USA. Tunnel of Love is an acoustic based album, with just the occasional member of the E Street Band along to flesh out the sound of Springsteen’s guitar, harp and light keyboards. But instead of the dark horror stories of Nebraska, Tunnel of Love is a deeply personal album reflecting on relationships and commitment (let’s hope Chuck and Di are listening!). Post-marriage Springsteen is introverted, uncertain and reflective; devoid of role-play and Boss cliche, Tunnel of Love is utterly sincere. 
True Bruce, then — and that, plus the lovely melodies and stunning restrained performance, is what gives the record its impact. Instead of the cinematic visions of the past, each song is like a black and white snapshot of a relationship. ‘Tunnel of Love’ evokes the tawdry fairground courtship; at his wedding, a son tries to cope with his father’s expectations in ‘Walk Like a Man.’ In ‘Brilliant Disguise’ the insecure husband looks through his wife’s eyes, “Is that you, baby?” he whispers, incanting his mentor Roy Orbison, “or just a brilliant disgu-i-i-ise?” The fights begin and the birds forget to sing in ‘One Step Up,’ one of the most affecting numbers, performed with the album’s consistent heartfelt delicacy. 
Bruce needed to come down to earth, and he’s pulled it off. The cynics have been waiting for him to become a self-parody, but unlike Van Morrison, say, who found his niche and made it a rut, Springsteen continues to challenge himself creatively. After the numbing radio blitz of 84-85, Tunnel of Love is a re-affirmation of his talent. 
Artist: John Hiatt 
Album: Bring the Family 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
It goes without saying that in its best and most essential form, rock ’n’ roll is live music feeding off the spontaneity and adrenalin of an immediate crowd response. Post Sgt Pepper, the studio, by comparison, has become a vacuum for perfection, an environment that hasn’t captured the best on offer from the people like John Hiatt. 
For seven albums he’s turned his particular wit, cynicism and honesty into a drawcard that has put him in the drawer just above cult status and earned him tags like a “Stateside Costello.” But whether it’s Slugline or his last album Welcome to the Ice Age, his records have consisted of a series of set pieces — fine songs without the cement or feel to set into great albums. 
Bring the Family, recorded live-in-the-studio in a manic four days, is an attempt to put matters right and set Hiatt’s songs alight with some rawboned spontaneity and energy. Produced by John Chelew and using a band as tested and weatherbeaten as Nick Lowe (bass), Jim Keltner (drums) and Ry Cooder, Hiatt covers his usual bases with a tough assurance. Armed with Cooder slithering and sliding behind the vocal or leading the song, ‘Memphis in the Meantime,’ ‘Alone in the Dark’ and ‘Thank You Girl’ sound meaner and less doctored by studio niceties than anything Hiatt’s ever managed in the past. 
On ‘Have a Little Faith in Me’ he belts out a gospel plea that sounds like it was done in one take. The same could be said for the heart-on-the-sleeve confessions of the closer, ‘Learning How to Love You,’ where Hiatt almost chokes on the vocal. But the album’s prize card has to be ‘Stood Up,’ where he tries to bend his tonsils around a bluesy ballad that Van Morrison would have loved. 
So a new record company, a new lease of life — Hiatt’s problem now is how to translate an album this natural, this vital, onto the stage. 
Artist: Shona Laing 
Album: South 
Record Label: Pagan 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Several strong elements characterise this album. Even as you extract the disc from its sleeve the first becomes evident. With such an album title and a lyric sheet printed as an Antarctic map we’re obviously in for an unashamedly Pacific perspective. Hence even the song ‘Bishop’ about South African Desmond Tutu can open with a Maori karanga. Not that Laing’s writing falls prey to pedantry or easy nationalism however. Any potential jingoism on ‘Neutral and Nuclear Free’ is undercut by the song’s joyous jug-band arrangement. Elsewhere Laing casts a cold eye on the death toll caused by our ‘Highway Warriors.’
Another obvious aspect of South is the quality of the songwriting. ‘Not a Kennedy’ may have been the breakthrough single but there are several other tracks equally as strong. ‘Drive Baby Drive,’ the followup, has a beat and hookline that should ensure equal chart success. The other tracks already mentioned are also memorable, as is ‘Soviet Snow,’ a reflection on the Chernobyl catastrophe. It’s prefaced by a long orchestral passage that would be deemed pretentious were it not that the song and its performance are so powerful. 
Which brings us to another factor: the production. Despite how good Genre was, when one returned to it after hearing the re-mixed ‘Kennedy’ something sounded lacking. This time out the sound is big and beefy, with Laing’s vocals set well into the overall mix. Instrumentation is nearly all electronic, from the “violin” on ‘Kennedy’ to the skittering trumpet sound on ‘Poles Apart.’ (Brian Smith plays real honking sax on ‘Highway Warriors’ though.) 
Ironically then, for all its impressiveness, the production also acts as a limitation in places. The arrangements are dominated by the preprogrammed rhythm section and Laing’s singing is phrased accordingly. Consequently on some tracks her natural warmth is lockstepped by cold computerised precision. There are one or two songs here I’ve preferred hearing her sing live with only acoustic backing. 
Nonetheless, there’s plenty going on here to not only thoroughly enjoy, but — forgive the portentousness — to feel proud of as well. 
New Zealanders have long expected the so-called “serious" arts to explore our understanding of who we are. These days of course, TVNZ is finally making some attempt at showing us ourselves. And now with bands the calibre of Herbs and individuals such as Shona Laing, it is clear that high quality mass-appeal pop music can be an equally valid expression of our culture. The best of South is indigenous art of international quality.
Artist: REM 
Album: Dead Letter Office
Artist: REM 
Album: Document 
Record Label: IRS 
Reviewed By: George Kay
More than any other American band this decade REM have tried to reconcile an American past and present without relying on the old mythologies and easy-ways-out of gunslingers, hard-truckin’ rugged individualism and Confederate cliches that have gained so many easy patriotic points for so many bands. 
Through four albums REM have left traces, trails by way of Stipe’s lyrics, that lead to reference points of personal response to living in the USA. And musically Berry, Buck and Mills have inherited and borrowed from a tradition as varied as Roger Miller, the Byrds, Lou Reed and their own neighbours, Pylon. 
Dead Letter Office does nothing if expose these roots. These outtakes and other odds’n’sods have been given the band’s seal of approval and given Peter Buck the licence to condemn 45s as essentially “crap usually purchased by teenagers.” Sour grapes from someone who should have the dignity to ignore life’s little failures especially considering the (s)crappy run-down of Dead Letter Office. 
Genuine quality outtakes like ‘Burning Down,’ ‘Windout’ and the typical REM pace and grace of ‘Ages of You’ are scattered amongst interesting but ultimately wane covers of ‘Pale Blue Eyes,’ ‘There She Goes Again’ and ‘Femme Fatale’ and throwaway fillers like Miller’s ‘King of the Road.’ Which leaves their envious version of Pylon’s ‘Crazy’ and Aerosmith’s ‘Toys in the Attic’ as telltale admissions of neighbourhood rivalry and teenage tastes. 
Like most compilations this is one for the converted, for the unbelievers there’s an EP of indisputable value here and that’s not enough. 
But this brings us to the serious stuff of Document— fables of construction and destruction. If anything coherent can be gleaned from Stipe’s cryptic, selectively photographic images, Lifes Rich Pageant was a saga of disappearing youth and of the old western identities. 
Document takes us workside from a confusion of “What we want and what we need” in the churning guts of ‘Finest Worksong’ to the post apocalypse “firehouse” of ‘Oddfellows Local 151.’ And because Stipe isn’t walking over the old prairies this time, Berry, Mills and Buck only ever cover what is typically REM crystalline guitar fare on the glorious ‘Welcome to the Occupation’ (“listen to the congress where we propogate confusion”) and ‘The One I Love.’ 
Elsewhere there’s a feeling of unease summed up in the selection of Wire’s ‘Strange’ from Pink Flag — “there’s something going on that’s not quite right”; and even though the stream-of-consciousness check list ‘lt’s the End of the World as We Know It (And I Feel Fine)’ fairly bums off the vinyl, you get the feeling that it’s the last gasp of rock’n’roll before the doomsday stuff on the leaf side. 
In four albums REM have articulated and integrated the spirit of American rock’n’roll better than any band since the Band or the Byrds. But on Document there’s a change of moot! and the densities of songs like .‘Fireplace, ,‘Lightnin. Hopkins’- and ‘Oddfellows’ could mean they’re heading for darker territories. That remains to be seen, suffice to say it’s a damn fine album — particularly the first page —but for the ideal introduction to REM stick to Murmur or Lifes Rich Pageant. 
Artist: Cabaret Voltaire 
Album: Code 
Record Label: Parlophone 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor
Some people are muttering that maybe this will be the big commercial success for the Cabs but they’ve said that of their last three albums. Sheffield duo Kirk and Mallinder were at their most bankable when they released Crackdown and its subsequent singles. Around that time they also remixed 2 x 45“ s ‘Yashar’ into a revealingly pert and tuneful single. They were obviously going for a Top 10 hit and, by a process of natural evolution, it was within their grasp. 
Now, by that same process of evolution, the Cabs have moved away from the charts again. Musically they’re doomed (or blessed) to advance only by re-hashing their past again and again, plundering your favourite tracks frm the last album in searchof riffs and basslines. Code begins with the traditional Mallinder snarl of ‘Don’t Argue’ (with Vietnam voiceover) and ‘Sex-Money-Freaks.’ ‘Thank You America’ could likewise be lifted straight off The Covenant, Sword and the Arm of the Lord. All musicians do it, but when, like the Cabs, you’re working with a small, idiosyncratic sound, the recycling becomes a distraction, and the new influences — however small —stick out a mile. 
Side two’s signpost-titled ‘Here to Go,’ for instance, finds Kirk and Mai doing Sly and Robbie, with beat-box rhythm breaks. ‘Code’ and ‘Trouble Won’t Stop’ also betray a strangely-warped dub influence. There are some light (very light) touches of 70s funk in the guitar work — blink and you’ll miss it. And there are subtle tilts towards the acoustic “third world” sounds recently re-imported by musicians like Jon Hassell, Peter Gabriel and David Sylvian, (although the closest any of them have come to the third world is Attenborough’s Gandhi on the VHS).
‘Life Slips By’ is the newest-sounding song on the album, almost begrudging us a chorus-tune. It would make a nice single. The title track is also pretty good, leaning into Funkadelicment land. 
Code is a typical Cabaret Voltaire album. It’s more economical than its predecessor, and not as poppy as Crackdown. It’s meaner and bold because it’s a retreat into ground they’ve already covered A extensively, - and that’s not necessarily a bad thing. The reggae and third world touches are interesting; maybe that’s where they’ll head next. Or maybe they’ll just head back to Sheffield for another Cabaret Voltaire album. 
“Satisfactory,” as K-9 would say.
Artist: Billy Bragg 
Album: Back to Basics 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
With raw electric guitar and flat London voice, Billy Bragg has become the bard of the 80s with his “urbane folk music” that ranges from touching love songs to biting satire and political comment. Back to Basics collects together the first 21 songs Bragg committed to vinyl, it’s Life’s a Riot.... Brewing Up ... and Between the Wars all in one double album package. 
Despite his musical limitations, Bragg is capable of great depth (such as the tenderness of his vocal on ‘The Milkman of Human Kindness’) and wit (lines like “our titanic love affair sails on the morning tide” would ensure, if his politics were otherwise, a career in advertising.) ‘Busy Girls Buy Beauty’ looks sarcastically at the banality of the popular mags, while ‘A New England’ is a primitive matter-of-fact love song. Bragg’s no guitarist, although the subdued ‘Man in the Iron Mask’ hints at ‘Stairway to Heaven,’ but his charm and sincerity carry his live show, and helped the demo quality Life's a Riot quickly sell 110,000 copies. 
For Brewing Up ... Bragg sharpened his pen and added additional instruments — the merest hint of organ and trumpet. ‘lt Says Here’ starts out like a rock anthem, underneath it’s Who rock epic. ‘Love Gets Dangerous’ also recalls the Who; Billy sounds like every boy in his bedromm who is breaking out. The Between the Wars EP is perhaps Bragg’s finest record, with such contemporary folk as the title track, and Woody Guthrie’s ‘Which Side are You On.” 
While this double album package offers good value, without Bragg’s endearing stage manner, an EP-sized dose is about the limit at a sitting. A companion book with a Billy history, the melody lines, chords and lyrics to the songs, also called Back to Basics, is being published by Express Music, Box 153, London WC2H OLD. 
Artist: Jesus & Mary Chain 
Album: Darklands 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
Over-produced as it was, there’s no denying the fact that Psychocandy was a landmark record of ’BS. Listening to it now, much of it sounds somewhat dated, but at the time, to wallow in sculptured layers of feedback and distortion seemed like bliss.
Come ’87 and once again reviewers get to talk about “production” and the Jesus & Mary Chain, cos to me, this sounds like two records — one with Bill Price joining William Reid at the controls, and one with John Loder co-producing with Reid. 
It sounds best when Price is producing; the record really doesn’t kick off till song three, ‘Happy When it Rains.’ And even though the guitars never get rill dirty, at least they find their edge in that song (until, of course, the lyrics go twee: “And we tried so hard I And we look so good / And we lived our lives in black ...”). 
Loder ups the gloss a notch or two, and that’s what I really don’t like, you need a much better song than ‘Nine Million Rainy Days’ to sustain that approach. Plus, the ‘Sympathy for the Devil’ backing vocals are awful. They should leave it to the Cult. 
‘April Skies’ is the good song, but it’s left alone to carry the weight of side two, which no song, however clever, could do—the likes of ‘Cherry Comes Too’ beg the question, “are they making perfect pop like they think they are?” The answer’s a patent no; wearing other people’s songs on your sleeve is not a clever trick — ‘Never Understand’ was a good, subtle Beach Boys pastiche, ‘Cherry Comes Too’ is crass.
The new drummer is about as inspiring as a metronome, and though one can appreciate the simplistic ethic at work in the J&MC, four chords do not an album make, unless you make them with a magic spark (Velvets, Ramones ...). Did the J&MC leave their spark in San Francisco, or did they just swallow their lollipop? 
Artist: Poison 
Album: Look What the Cat Dragged In 
Record Label: 
Reviewed By: lan Plowman 
Liberation Imagine you’re 14 years old and choosing between Curiosity Killed the Cat and Poison. One sings about ‘Ordinary Days’ and the weather in Barbados, wear style-by-numbers designer labels and “nice” haircuts. The other looks like the Bangles and sings about girls, cars, running wild and rock ’n’ roll. Young stuff. No contest, right? 
The Top 10 is clogged with social consciences and upwardly mobile fashion victims. Enough! In a world of chart whores, at least Poison play the game with flash. They steal all the right riffs and wear Sex Pistols and James Dean T-shirts. Right from the opening Glitter-beat drums to the closing voice that yells, “You heard your mother, turn that shit off!”, Poison present you 10 perfect pop anthms. The titles say it all: ‘No 1 Bad Boy,’ ‘Play Dirty’, I Want Action’ (“I want action tonight, satisfaction allright!”). The ballad even has a vocal that goes, “I won’t forget you-ooo.” 
It’s big guitars, pounding drums and chugging bass, but it’s a million miles from pot-gut and truncheon-trousers “rock” and ugly, heads-down, earsbleeding speed metal. Poison come on looking like a clean New York Dolls and souding like a dirty Bay City Rollers for the 80s. Like fab.
Artist: Buckwheat Zydeco 
Album: On a Night Like This 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Zydeco is the dancehall music of French-speaking Louisianan blacks, a funky ethnic combination of French, Cajun and rhythm and blues elements. It’s a music full of energy, designed to get people out of their sets and onto the dancefloor. The lead instrument of zydeco is the piano accordian, which pumps and slides along with the verve and idiosyncratic rhythms of the legendary pianist Professor Longhair. 
The master of the form is Clifton Chenier, and Buckwheat Zydeco (aka Stanley “Buckwheat” Dural) is considered his heir. On a Night Like This reflects the continuing evolution of zydeco; it’s a music that takes on contemporary influences without losing its essence. So don’t be surprised when you see a synthesiser in the band along with the horns and whipcrack New Orleans rhythm section, or covers like the Blasters’ ‘Marie Marie,’ ‘Time is Tight,’ and the Dylan title track. All sit well alongside such orginals as the-frolicking, whooping ‘Ma ’Tit Fille’ or ‘Zydeco Honky Tonk.’ 
Buckwheat Zydeco’s profile has been lifted with a major label deal and music in a hit film The Big Easy. While the constant accordian may be too much for some, that’s because they’re not dancing hard enough. On a Night Like This is an accessible crossover introduction to zydeco that can be recommended to anyone who loves the sound of New Orleans, the taste of gumbo, or sweaty dancefloors. 
Artist: TNT 
Album: Tell No Tales 
Record Label: Polygram
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
A hard rock four-piece that hailed from Norway and then recruited San Diego singer Tony Harnell for a more successful international sound. His high-pitched vocals are well-suited and raises the album to a climax for the ‘Tell No Tales’ track with some soprano screaming. As far as guitarists go, Ronnie Le Tekro is hot and his classical influence shines through on ‘Sapphire,’ along with real ripper lead breaks in ‘Desperate Heart’ and others.’ ‘Northern Lights’ and ‘Child’s Play’ are the quieter ones to soften things out a bit. A running time of 29 minutes means this album is both short and sweet.
Artist: Sherrick 
Album: Sherrick 
Record Label: Warners 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan 
A new soul boy in town, and he’s looking like he owns it. The cover has the “stare, ” eyes fixed right at you, the reverse shot has him walking around a forest with a silk shirt and his chest puffed out. Not exactly a natural look, but a carefully mannered “Hey, baby, I’m so damn hot I’ll burn the pants off you. ” Check out the armpit shot on the inner sleeve, a first for a soul album. But the sexual arrogance of the image and all the other pretensions disappear when you hear the purity of the voice, when you get into the groove. 
Take ‘Baby I’m For Real, ’ written by Marvin Gaye and his wife Anna for Motown band the Originals, No 1 on the soul charts for 1969. This is a great interpretation of that classic soul sound, with lots of emotion simply and beautifully expressed. 
Also ‘Lady You Are,’ apart from the dubious talking bit with, “We’ve become one mind, one heart beating with the rhythm of love...” Okay, if you say so. Like that's a little schmaltzy, but when the chorus comes in, all is forgiven. 
When we talk about contemporary soul singers, the name Luther Vandross becomes the standard everyone gets compare to, and sure stuff like ‘Do You Baby’ and ‘Let’s Be Lovers’ has that upbeat Vandross groove. But Sherrick has his own approach to things, the vocal style comes from the grand tradition but is used in an original way, like the single ‘Just Call,’ and the ballad ‘All Because of You.’ 
One side is described as “Hits,” the other “Mo’ Hits,” and I won’t disagree with that. In fact I like this better than Alexander O’Neal’s Hearsay (yeah, I know that’s sacrilege), and there’s gonna be plenty more hits from Mr Sherrick to come. 
Artist: Elvis Costello 
Album: The Man 
Record Label: Liberation 
Reviewed By: Simon Grigg 
The last volume in the welcome and much overdue local reissue of the Elvis Costello catalogue is this greatest hits compilation. Originally released in the UK and USA in 1985, and therefore not covering either of 1986's releases King of America or Blood and Chocolate, contractual problems prevented it being available here until now. 
Now it seems to me that the only really sensible and comprehensive Elvis Costello compilation would be a 12-album set containing each of the originals plus the essential 10 Bloody Marys and 10 How’s Your Fathers collection of non-album tracks. A single record could never be representative of the enigmatic and chameleon-like career of Declan McManus, although this album makes a fairly reasonable stab at it. 
For obvious commercial considerations The Man concentrates on the biggest hit albums, with This Year's Model, Armed Forces, Get Happy! and Punch the Clock each contributing three tracks, at the expense however of some of the finer tracks from records like Imperial Bedroom and Trust. I can think of four or five songs I would have regarded as essential to this sort of collection —no ‘Less than Zero’ or ‘Man Out of Time,' or for that matter ‘Radio Radio,’ but that’s personal taste, and to be fair there’s also nothing I would have left off. Tracks like ‘High Fidelity’ and ‘New Amsterdam,’ both off the wonderful Get Happy!, and Trust’s ‘Clubland’ are still crucial and spinetingling to my ears. It’s also gratifying to see the compiler (uncredited) had the sense to include the two moody masterpieces ‘Shipbuilding’ and ‘Pills and Soap.’ 
Some liner notes would have been helpful, but that said, this record works as all good compilations should, as an introduction to the man. It’s also great to do the dishes to. 
Artist: Various 
Album: The Harder the Edge... The Rocka the Roll 
Record Label: Jayrem 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
Ah, compilation albums — The Harder they Come meets AK79? Not quite, but a diverting bunch of “alternative” bands from the north to the deep south, gathered together on record by Flesh D-Vice’s Gerald Dwyer, show that “punk” is as wide-ranging a term in '87 Newzild as it is anywhere else. 
My two favourites are No Idea and the Mindfuckers from Dunedin. No Idea sound miles clearer than everything else, but there is no significant sacrifice of energy for clarity; they close the album with the amusing ‘Yank Me Doodle.’ The Mindfuckers’ Walkman recording of ‘Millions of Pills,’ ‘Grab Your Partner’ and ‘I’m a Duck’ is shitty beyond belief, but they’re funny and I still like ’em best. 
The rest veers from Metal Box PiL-style ?Fog, and Flesh D-Vice’s ‘Shifting Night,’ to ‘Confused’ by Compos Mentis — with dippy frantic Slits/Kleenex style of delivery. Five Year Mission provide the almost singalong ‘Adult Life’ and Armatrak are getting faster at every recording, but overall, the record fails to point to any great “New Zealand” sound emerging, nothing really that innovative — the Brothers Gorgonzola mix in some odd rock’n’roll, but the overall path of this music runs straight and narrow.
It’s fun and it does the job, but in the end, I’d still like to know where the Warners are — if anyone deserves to go on here, it’s them, and they could’ve given The Harder the Edge enough “rockatheroll” to knock yer socks off, I'm sure, and that’s what it really needed: at least one fucking amazing band.
Artist: The Proclaimers 
Album: This is the Story 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
The Proclaimers are gonna make unlikely pop stars; hailing from Auchtermuchty (a wee place in Fife just north of Edinburgh) the Reid twins, Craig and Charlie, decided in 1983 to burst out of their village and take on... well, other villages. The surprise was that last year the Housemartins took them under their wings and before you could say, “Hey Jimmy pass me a pint o’ heavy will ye?” the Proclaimed had supported their patrons on a hit UK tour and recorded This is the Story in two weeks earlier this year. 
Initially the whole thing sounds like a novelty acoustic bluegrass satire a la Topp Twins from two Buddy Holly/Joe 90 lookalikes. But many a serious tale was told in jest and the amazing thing with this album is that with only their wits and acoustic guitars andthe odd bit of percussion to hide behind, the Reid Brothers have come up with some songs of rare quality and truth. 
‘Throw the ‘R’ Away’ is a protest against the undermining of the Scot’s accent (why do bands sing in American?) and a guarantee that the 12 songs here are thickly and naturally brogued. Related to that is ‘Trying to Get to the Part that Really Matters,’ which puts the “ABC of the heart” before style and appearances. ‘Letter from America’ is a gem about Scots abroad longing for the homeland (the most sentimental race on earth) and death is looked in the eye on ‘Sky Takes the Soul' and even worse, unemployment on ‘I Broke My Heart.’ Both fine songs but the showstopper has to be ‘The Joyful Kilmarnock Blues’ (birthplace and home of a certain writer), a sort of bluegrass holler that makes football a transcendental experience ... ie, he was pissed. 
Go tell it on a mountain — the Proclaimers are buying the next round. Topp Twins eat yer hearts out. 
Artist: Asleep at the Wheel 
Album: 10 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan 
Ah, yes, Western Swing. Count Basie on cactus juice, where the fiddle reigns supreme and sweet country voices flow like honey. Asleep at the Wheel have been riding the road that Bob Wills built since 1973, with an impressive collection of great records, with 1975’s Texas Gold and the recent Best of being vital country records. 
Here’s number 10, with only Ray Benson remaining from the original lineup, and damn if it don’t still sound good. Especially ‘Coast to Coast’ and B J Shaver’s ‘Way Down Texas Way,’ with the great Johnny Gimble on fiddle. Another high is their version of Merrill Moore’s ‘House of Blue Lights,’ but things get a little weak with the Huey Lewis-produced ‘I Want a New Drug. ’ By the sound of that, they probably do. But it’s almost saved by rockabilly legend Ray Camp on slap bass. 
Personally I think western swing is one of the 20th century’s greatest creations, and it’s superfine to see great bands like Asleep at the Wheel still mining that Texas gold. 
Artist: Yes
Album: Big Generator 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
Love them or not, there’s no denying that Yes have always been a group of the highest musicianship. Jon Anderson’s high, pure voice coupled with the incredible, powerful bass playing and vocal harmonies of co-founder Chris Squire is what mainly makes up the trademark affirmative sound. However, new dimensions were added to their musical landscape by South African guitarist singer, producer Trevor Rabin (he’s also good on keyboards, bass and drums!) As well as having all the technical ability his guitaring gives Yes the harder edge that emerged on the previous most successful studio release 90125. Big Generator offers something different again, while still keeping the identity of this virtuostic band that been around for the best part of 20 years. 
A nice choral intro makes way for the pulsing ‘Rhythm of Love,’ which takes off into Rabin’s short sharp solo. Alternatively, the roomy ‘Shoot High, Aim Low’ highlights his very fluent acoustic skills with longtime Yes drummer Alan White laying down a wide ride and snare. For ‘Almost Like Love’ he switches to a tight driving beat, while Anderson's vocals skip cleverly over the top. Chris Squire is easily heard putting all five strings of his new bass to the test of the best (“The Fish” hasn’t used his old faithful Rickenbacker on these recordings). The title track is as close as it gets to anything on the last album, with the music and voices of the ‘Big Generator’ zapping from all directions and singing of experiencing psychedelic and things. 
‘Love Will Find a Way’ is the single that comes across so refreshingly over FM and should stay on the airwaves all summer. Friendship is the theme for ‘Final Eyes,’ which follows and has more graceful acoustic guitar work and stacked vocals. Then it’s into Tm Running,’ the epic build-up track that most resembles the unbelievably difficult and intricate compositions of mid-period Yes. Moving from soft percussion and xylophone through a Brazilian/flamenco section, then spiralling to a peak of weird time signatures, it’s kinda like Drama without the Buggies. The album gently ends with a Jon Anderson song of peace called ‘Holy Lamb.' 
Big Generator is so good and colourful that something new can be discovered with each listening. Should you buy this purple and green LP (or red and yellow CD)? The answer can only be... YES! 
Artist: Aerosmith 
Album: Permanent Vacation 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
It may seem like it but the dudes haven’t been on holiday since the original lineup reformed and recorded Done With Mirrors. That album (which had its label and cover printed backwards) didn’t take off sales-wise and wasn’t released here, nor the two live LPs that followed. Then of course along the way came the rap rehash with Run DMC of the old Aerosmith hit 'Walk This Way.’ 
Now they have returned with their real comeback and it’s a beauty. ’Hearts Done Time' puts them back in the saddle again with the pure rock ’n’ roll sound that’s been a big influence on just about every young Yankee rock band since. These songs highlight Aerosmith’s blues and dixie roots, particularly in ‘Hangman’s Jury’ and ‘Rag Doll.’ There’s a tale of mistaken gender of a groupie in ‘Dude (Looks Like a Lady)’and 'St John’confirms that singer Steven Tyler is one of the coolest. He and Mr Perry hit it off so well together musically, like in the calypso-flavoured ‘Permanent Vacation,’ and with brass section in ‘Girl Keeps Coming Apart,’ where Joe really goes for it. It is kind of like taking a trip to the Bahamas. 
Artist: Def Leppard 
Album: Hysteria 
Record Label: Polygram 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
It’s been a long time since the rock world was set alight with the massive Pyromania, and an even longer nightmare of events for the band responsible. Two attempts at producing Hysteria were scrapped and then drummer Rick Allen lost his left arm in an auto accident (now he plays ail his drum parts live on a specially designed kit). 
With Allen’s sound programmed into the mix the album is finally completed and Def Leppard rightfully return to the forefront with a loud roar! Understandably fans will be getting over the new album and tour, as they’ve been well rewarded for their patient waiting. ‘Animal’ and the title track may have a more commercial touch, but that doesn’t detract from the quality of the songs at all because the arrangements and group effort is tops. ‘Rocket’ is a dedication to music stars of the past and has amazing drum and voice effects, while ‘Run Riot’ is rebel rousing rage. ‘Women’ and ‘Don’t Shoot Shotgun’ are also numbers that proudly continue the distinct Leppard sound, once again produced to the max by Matt Lange. 
Make the most of this exciting 64 minutes of rock, cos the next album probably won’t be till 1990 as Def Leppard are on the road for close to two years. 
Artist: Various 
Album: Atlantic Soul Classics 
Record Label: K-Tel
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
Soul as an academic musical genre began as a reaction to the European influence on black jazz. Bringing back the emphasis on blues, gospel and rhythm. Away from the cool school and into the hot.
It’s feeling above intellect, about intensity and rawness, emotions from pleasure to pain. About sin and divinity. About living lives and being human. Don’t mean a damn thing about colour, hell, Hank Williams has got soul.
Atlantic Records was one of the houses of soul, deep, gritty and positively Southern. Down home soul, compared to the city boys at Motown. Something like Otis Redding and Carla Thomas’s ‘Tramp,’ with that flat bottom rhythm and Otis and Carla throwing the dozens at each other. This sounds dirty when you listen to the little pop symphonies making up the Sound of Young America. So does the Wicked Pickett on ‘ln the Midnight Hour,’ this is about sex, all sticky and wet. Nothing to do whatsoever with the virginal Supremes saying ‘We Can’t Hurry Love.’ 
Atlantic had a lot of songs about pride and being someone, like Aretha’s ‘Respect’ and Sam and Dave’s ‘Soul Man.’ But if you want songs just about having fun, the Drifters’ ‘Under the Broadwalk’ just about defines that feeling.
Atlantic’s success relied a lot on its production and sound, with talented songwriters like Leiber and Stoller, producers like Tom Dowd, and musicians like Donald “Duck” Dunn and Steve Cropper making up the core. Making a hybrid of rural and urban sounds, their best results came with taking urban artists like Franklin and Pickett and going south to record with a mixture of black and white musicians, a linking of country and blues.
This is indeed an album of “soul classics,” none of which are tarnished by time nor bad cover versions that many would only have heard. Every track shines, from the celebratory rush of Arthur Conley’s ‘Sweet Soul Music,’ to the sad resignation of Otis Redding’s ‘Dock of the Bay.’
It’s more than essential to own these songs.
Artist: Bobby Womack 
Album: Womagic 
Record Label: MCA 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
There’s one very sound reason for investing in this album: Bobby Womack’s voice. Sure, there are other soul singers more gifted technically, but I can’t thinkof any who pour out emotion any stronger within such limitations. The man ranges from a full-throated roar to a crying whisper and back again. With other singers you’d call it histrionics; with Womack it’s solid soul. 
The material’s nothing particular to comment on: a predominance of stately ballads which are often not much more than vehicles for those wonderful lungs. Producer Chips Moman establishes a good variety of instrumental contexts, including a particularly effective acoustic guitar accompaniment to Womack’s own ‘When the Weekend Comes.’ But ultimately it’s still that voice that matters. Womagic may not scale the peaks of 1984’s Poet II but it’s great to know that Bobby Womack is still giving the soul mainstream a good name. 
Artist: Atlantic Starr 
Album: All in the Name of Love 
Record Label: Warners 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan 
Their single has to be the ballad of the year, it drips with OTT sentiment, as if they got the lyrics from one of those greeting cards with little puppies on. A truly awesome piece of work. 
The rest of the album seems to be an introduction to the power of positive thinking. Check out ‘Thankful’: “It would be nice if we leaned towards appreciation / It’s not hard if we just try.” And what about ‘Let the Sun in’ with, “Lend a helping hand to someone / Try to find something nice to say.” Both written by the Lewis brothers, who are obviously not related to LL Cool J in any way whatsoever. 
Nice, but maybe too nice. There’s not enough funky raunch here to appeal to dance fans, except for the pop feel of 'One Lover at a Time.’ Atlantic Starr have aimed for the middle market and their aim is true if not a bit tame. 
Artist: Blood Uncles 
Album: Libertine 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
Debut from this Scottish trio, with main man being Big John Duncan, last seen with punk dinosaurs the Exploited. But this is a different can of worms indeed, with a hard version of Prince’s ‘Let’s Go Crazy,’ and some weird blues jams on ‘Scars in the Morning’ and ‘Under Your Heel.’ Despite the modernist approach, the album is soaked in early 70s sensibilities, as in the Doors and Blue Cheer (remember them?), which is quite fun if you hadn’t had to live with that stuff originally. Since they’re. Scottish, the name of Alex Harvey pops up, and his ghost walks on most of these cuts. Like ‘Danny’s Favourite Game,’ the story of an Aids terrorist. Alex would’ve liked that one. Three men and a drum machine make some interesting and threatening music. Don’t let the Exploited tag put you off. 
Artist: Anthrax 
Album: Among the Living 
Record Label: Festival
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
Many people may not be able to comprehend this band. While the music is urgent intense metal, the lyrics, ideas and energy captured on Among the Living are positive, thoughtful and basically a whole lot of good fun. Anthrax aren’t into drugs, death or serious nonsense — they’d rather play their own brand of HM or even just ride their skateboards. They speed into 'Caught in a Mosh’ for the slammers and use the inspiration of writer Stephen King in the title track ‘Skeletons in the Closet,’ which are both horribly good. Favourite though would have to be 'lndians,' with its tribal drum beats and genuine Injun Joey Balladonna singing ideally for this stuff. Main contributor to these frenzied and funny songs is Scott lan whose awareness and attitude is what sets Anthrax apart from most metal bands. 