Artist: The Chills 
Album: Brave Words 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
Not forgetting the fact that some of these songs are very old, with this first Chills’ album we get more of an indication of the state of the current Chills’ lineup than of a debut album that’s been over six yearsin the making. The final soundofthealbummaypoint to some lack of expertise in the sense that a studio album is a different recording environment to anything they’ve previously experienced, but the impression left by the band on the record is a far wider one — left by the Chills riding high on success and ability, a unity (sounding much more like a band than when they departed last year) that makes the mood of performance and songs energetic and upbeat. 
Lyrically, only ‘Sixteen Heartbeats’ (an oldie) hints at the nervous self-doubt of songs like ‘Pink Frost’ and ‘Doledrums,’ whereas ‘Brave Words’ paints the clearest picture of Martin Phillipps's concerns on this record, “watching the positive people, the numbers are drifting away / sometimes I wish I could join them...” Placed alongside tracks such as ‘Push’ and the older ‘Look for the Good in Others and They’ll See the Good in You,’ a cohesive optimistic and positive lyrical web can be seen that extends into the song structures themselves. 
‘Push’ could be a quiet album-opener, but it's more than that. Less than two minutes in it seems initially insubstantial, but it then reveals itself to be as bold and assertive as lyrics and title suggest, right through the melodic focus in Phillipps’s vocal and lyrics into the instrumentation, with Caroline Easther’s propulsive drumming at its heart. It is followed by the stacatto hum of ‘Rain’ and then ‘Speak for Yourself,’ where typical Phillipps images of night, ghosts and dreams, expressed through the past and childhood, open up into the central idea of “Break out and speak for yourself while you've time / take the plunge — it's safe, I swear it's fine.’’
The blatant love songs work well too — the single 'Wet Blanket' and ‘Night of Chill Blue’ retain a degree of freshness and charming simplicity that almost deny their vintage. Only ‘Dark Carnival’ fails in this respect. As a song, both lyrically and musically (including sampled drum effects) it is obviously an experiment, and on an album where the major strength lies in the quality of the songwriting, ‘Dark Carnival’ meanders and ultimately founders. 
The other concern on Brave Words comes with the mix. Often songs which could be peaks appear flattened out, quietened down, perhaps in an effort to stem the potentially schizophrenic nature of an album that, for instance, sandwiches 'Wet Blanket’s ethereal pop between straight-ahead thrash in the form of ‘Look for the Good’ andthe swirling carnival climax to side one of ‘Ghosts.' It’s a shame because Brave Words spends a lot of time bubbling when it needs to spit fire just a little. But as a collection of bouyant songs and as a testament to songwriting talent, Brave Words is better than good — it is a success, and deserves to sell like one.

Also included with the album is a giveaway single of a live recording of the Chills incarnation previous to this one. Contrast between the records comes with Peter Allison’s gutsy keyboard sound on both ‘I’ll Only See You Alone Again’ and ‘Green Eyed Owl,’ and Terry Moore’s intriguing bass work on the latter. I won’t say something dumb like “buy the album for the free single,” but I do believe that you should want both records. They’re good, so get out and do it. 
Artist: The Pogues 
Album: If I Should Fall From Grace With God 
Record Label: Pogue Mahone 
Reviewed By: Susan Camden
“Everyone’s haunted by death. I’ve got a certain respect for death,” said Shane McGowan once, and the Pogues' latest album If I Should Fall From Grace With God confirms this view.
The darker side of life is a major theme that runs through their third LP of rebellious folk ballads and tales. They sing about being haunted (‘Turkish Song of the Damned’), of returning home after years abroad to find everything changed (‘The Broad Majestic Shannon’), about little green men (‘Sit Down by the Fire’) and of B-grade love (‘Fairytale of New York’). 
He sure knows how to string words together for a lively yarn, does Shane, with his warm-voiced ballads and growling raspy choruses as in the medley’s: 
“With me wack fol the do fol 
The diddle idle day” 
Not only do they tackle tunes from their own Gaelic heritage but they also go for a Spanish burlesque vaudeville sound in ‘Fiesta’, while flowing through the catchy singalong title track is a more Cajun theme. 
Third time round the Pogues and producer Steve Lillywhite have created a slicker, bigger and more professional sound. There are banjoes, whistles, saxophones, accordions, whistles and heaps of jiving jigging instruments that make for a a fuller sound that’s near orchestral in parts. 
These smoother, sleeker Pogues are not so rough and ready, which may be fine by you, but for me it means they’ve lost some of their raucous spontaneity that enhanced the rebellious, tipsy side of their folk music. Without it they sink to a mere speeded-up version of the Dubliners.
For those fans of the Pogues who enjoy folk music then If I Should Fall From Grace With God is a gem of an album, but lovers of boisterous Irish punk-folk music may have to play it several times to appreciate the subtler sound. 
Artist: Gaye Bykers on Acid 
Album: Drill Your Own Hole
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Ken Stewart 
Lock up your sons, kill your daughters for Grebo-mania is upon us! Yes folks, it’s the latest musically maligned from the mother country. And whereas in times gone by a band persevered to preserve a squeaky clean image, well like B-boy cousins the Beasties, “Grebos” revel in lewd, digusting behaviour — sexism, the works, just for fun (natch, image) of it all.
So what of these Gaye Bykers on Acid? Having playing indie favourites for a year or three, achieving some chart success, here's their debut LP Drill Your Own Hole on Virgin (from whom they secured the princely advance of 100,000 pounds to record with).
Like Zodiac Mindwarp and Pop Will Eat Itself, they’re pop mutants soaking in an acid bath. The music is a rollicking, sprawling powerhouse, with every attempt made to WOW out. But occasionally you’ll be surprised when a tuneful backing vocal shines through the onslaught, or a sudden arrangement pulls a song to pieces, only to build up and smash it again. Production is cluttered and chaotic (I think it’s called “wall of noise”) but interesting to say the least, with all sorts of deep dark marshland to cross. Pretty weird and wonderful.
Suppose they owe a lot to people like the MCS, Iggy, the general psychedelic hardcore scene, and they’ve even supported Lemmy and Motorhead. Don’t think they’ll appear in any Disney movies, but Return of the Living Dead, Part 3? They might get a look in. 
Artist: Lloyd Cole and the Commotions 
Album: Mainstream 
Record Label:Polydor 
Reviewed By: George Kay
It’s hard to pinpoint exactly where Cole fits into the present setup. Like his friend Morrissey he’s tried to make it as a wordsmith, but unlike Morrissey, whose anecdotes are firmly rooted in England, Cole, now on this third album, still writes and sounds like he wishes he was born 3000 miles west of Durham, his home town. 
Being bred in the north of England and schooled in Glasgow would probably make most people pine for the Mississippi he uses as imagery on the title track of Mainstream. And although Cole doesn’t overplay the Americana touches on the album, his words are too contrived to gain the authentic feeling of experience he's obviously after. That’s his main flaw, but he’s got some real strengths. The Commotions are still more than tidy, as evidenced on ‘Mister Malcontent,’ ‘Sean Penn Blues’ and ‘My Bag,’ where guitarist Neil Clark supplies the backbone and is even given some free reign when Cole winds up his rap. ‘From the Hip' is another case of in vogue cliche Americana, but the tone and the sentiment rise above those drawbacks and on 'Big Snake’ the Commotions provide a delicate atmospheric base for what’s probably Cole’s best delivery on the album. 
The upshot is that although you get the feeling that these days Cole is about as hot as last week’s toast, he’s still able, with the Commotions at his back, to knock out a reasonable noise. 
Artist: Straitjacket Fits 
Album: Life in One Chord 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
So I’ve got no shame, calling them the unchallenged “band of the year”? That loud-mouthed Shayne Carter and just-another Dunedin band? Wrong: get your heads out of the sand and listen to the Straitjacket Fits kick some arse on this vinyl. Sure it’s arrogant, swaggering rock, but they’re not playing with enough scorn that they want to make your ears bleed. They exude class, and with their Life in One Chord, the Straitjacket Fits are intent on creating a literate, big noise; there’s an emotional range in this music that keys in with Carter’s expressed desire to “caress the night away.”
The opener 'Dialling a Prayer’ is stretched about as taut as it will go on David Woods’ bassline and a finely sung chorus from Carter and Andrew Brough. The would-be anthemic All That That Brings’ is the only one of the EPs four songsthat doesn’t rise to the occasion on record - it’s a little too different, wrapped around a bank of 12string guitars in choppy unison, lacking the electrical edge of live versons.
On side two, Andrew Brough’s ‘Sparkle that Shines' is the place where everyone can say, “aw, I like the SJFs,” and justifiably so — it’s clever, well-made pop, working better in the studio than it often does live. Brough’s voice is one that, given the opportunity through Terry Moore’s production, can truly soar and still be set off by Carter wailing some harmony in the background, and it’s here that the guitars can mesh - they don’t have to lock fretboards like in 'Dialling a Prayer.’ 
Finally, She Speeds’ is the pinnacle of Life in One Chord’s achievement. Running for four minutes, it goes way beyond the effect of a simple killer-riff guitar song such as Big Black’s‘ll Duce’as the SJFs throw the song mercilessley through mood and time-changes, alternately raging and succeeding in sounding tortured, not camp, in its quiet passages. 
Right now, they’re playing these songs and new ones like ‘Hail’ with some venom, but this Life in One Chord, I might just have to call “essential.” For real.
Artist: Patea Maori Club 
Album: Poi E 
Record Label: Maui 
Reviewed By: Piripi Walker 
Tate rino i wa wahi ai, ma te rino ano e honohono. Ta te kaka i haehae ai, ma te kaka ano e tuitui. (What iron has crushed, only iron can repair. What the kaka parrot has torn, let the kaka sew together.)
This saying by the Taranaki prophet Te Whiti o Rongomai is interpreted to mean “What the forces of the Pakeha have destroyed, only that civilisation can repair. But what Maori people have rejected of themselves, they themselves must restore.”
“E kore te tangata e tu, kite kore te iwi e tu ki muri i a ia. "(“A person cannot stand alone, without the people in support.’’) 
Dalvanius’s return to his Maori side after his mother’s death has been a huge gain, not just for Maori music, but also for Maoridom. Luckily, the Patea Maori Club, including families like the Kahu family who are strong in Maoritanga, were thinking the same things at that time. Dalvanius also had the benefit of some truly great teachers of Maoritanga, such as the late Ruka Broughton, the late Ngoi Pewhairangi and many others. Although he is a person with a big name and his own strong ideas, he has the qualities of heart to be humble and to learn. Ngoingoi Pewhairangi herself remained quietly in this role throughout the 40s, 50s and 60s, beside the legendary Tuini Ngawai, whose gravestone on the East Coast simple reads “He tupua” (“A genius”). 
On their new album, Dalvanius and the Patea Maori Club pay tribute to a number of teachers in Maoritanga, with a mixture of old and new songs. Side one of Poi E is an opera tracing the history of the Taranaki tribes. There are sound effects, an English voiceover by Don Selwyn, tapes of well-known Maori speakers, and traditional Maori waiata. The new single, ‘Ngoingoi,’ a tribute to Ngoingoi Pewhairangi, begins side two, and it is also in Maori. So are the older chart-toppers on side two, ‘Poi El’ and ‘Aku Raukura,' both joint compositions with Ngoi Pewhairangi. 
Dalvanius has always reminded those who want to see Maori spoken as a living language that they must understand the power of music. It is their youth’s vocabulary, a means of expression, and provides the symbols for rebellion and the conquest of the adult world.
In 1984 when my son was nine, he used to take his ghetto blaster out on the front lawn and bang in his prize possession—a cassette of 'Poi E! ’ As the music rolled down the lawn and into the ears of the kids outside the fish and chip shop next door, he would lie on the grass, singing the words and wriggling with happiness. ‘Poi E!” had a lot of mana on our street.
Now, while listening to the latest LP, my four-year-old daughter hears ‘E Papa Waiari, ’ and her ears prick up. It’s a standard at the kohanga reo she goes to, but without the reggae arrangement. She stands with head up, eyes following hands in the stick game actions — heel lifting on the reggae beat, the hips moving in the traditional action song, as Ngoi would have taught it. And she’s singing the words and they’re in Maori. That’s what happens when you make the right decisions about composing and singing in Maori. Never mind that Pakeha stations only played them a little and too late. Maori stations are almost a reality, and the Club dominates the playlist on the fledgling stations. 
It’s notoriously difficult to get a large action song group to produce songs that bite and entice in a recording studio. Voices get lost, the physical power of a good front row is invisible: the intimacy of one, two or three voices can’t be matched. The recipe of modern radio pop is to set several elements, voice, instruments and rhythm, at appealing cross purposes with each other. This, plus the hooks in the melody, make mass appeal radio music. Up till now Dalvanius has conquered the difficulties and produced the hits, ’cause he knows what Maori kids like. 
On the album however, some of the songs sound the same for this reason, even if you understand the words. The only other criticism I have is of the way the traditional material is used on side one. I am keen on the old Maori laments and chants, with their sad or lightning-swift play of word and sound. 
They express the deepest human emotions, and are vast storehouses of knowledge. On the album, little bits of them are used in the opera on side one with pieces of spoken Maori in between. To me, the snippets of waiata are floating around as if lost, and the speakers, with echo added, sound spooky. 
Isn’t this what young people say they find intimidating about the marae? I worry about serving adult food to young palates. The young people can suffer, and the food suffers. He tamariki tonu o ratou whakaaro.
But who can say anything negative about the efforts of Dalvanius and the Club. They have lifted the mana of their own people, their traditions, language and culture to new heights. Their songs are on the lips of the younger generation, and have travelled the world.
Language is a living thing, and the Patea Maori Club and Dalvanius are one of the major influences in the use and development of the language in recent times. 
No reira koutou nga kaihautu, nga kaiwaiata, kaore emutute mihi atu ki a koutou. Kia mau, kia mau ki to Maoritanga. 
Artist: James Brown 
Album: James Brown
Record Label: K-Tel 
Album: At the Apollo Vol 1 
Record Label: Polydor 
Album: ...and Friends 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan
If JB didn’t exist we would have to invent him. How else could one explain the mysteries of rhythm? There has to be a creator, a prime mover, a centre to the confusion that is rhythm. 
JB is that centre, the man who started it all. The first collection is a beginning, but only a beginning, the JB worldview is immense, and this is only part of it. But all the tracks are necessary for further understanding. Start at the last track ‘Say it Loud, I’m Black and I’m Proud ’ for the J B philosophy of pride in self, and listen to the rest. Every one a statement of purpose, like ‘I Got You (I Feel Good)’ is a love song to another, but that’s only because JB is sure of himself.
Mostly taken from the funk sides, stuff like ‘Papa’s Got a Brand New Bag’ defind a whole new sound, the centre had shifted from the lyric into the possibilities of the rhythm — it had become a thing in itself. There are lots of examples on this collection, with perhaps ‘Get on the Good Foot’ being of prime importance. 
What’s missing is the ballad style of JB, there is ‘Man’s World’ but no ‘Try Me’ or ‘Prisoner of Love’ — but that’s for you to find out. Certainly the best collection available for local consumption; nearly everything else exists on import. Now—two live albums, one at the beginning of the sound, and the other, the present day. 
Beyond all superlatives, the Apollo set is the best record ever made. Such soul power has never been surpassed. From the classic intro (by Danny Ray) through the great hits, a lot of gospel as in ‘Please Please Please’ and the rumblings of soul in ‘Think.’ Rhythm and blues is a majestic thing, and JB took the crown that night and no one has ever taken it back.
The latest live set still excites me, things like ‘How Do You Stop’ and the new versions of ‘Papa’s Got a Brand New Bag’ are especially good. The friends featured are Joe Cocker, who sounds good on TH Go Crazy,’ Robert Palmer, who sounds limp on ‘Try Me,’ and Billy Vera, a minor talent to say the least. The best is JB and the Wicked Wilson Pickett working up a ‘Cold Sweat.’ A fine live recording, but it doesn’t hold a damn thing to the Apollo recording. 
Three slices of a legend who, if you haven’t heard, you should have.
Artist: Maxi Priest 
Album: Maxi 
Record Label: 10 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Maxi Priest’s music has textures rather than depths. Don’t expect to be transported by him. Just enjoy him for what he is. His seamless crossover of Lovers Rock and disco has already served him well on two LPs and a multitude of satisfying-12”ers, and shows no signs of letting him down yet. 
Even when making statements, Maxi is muted. Marcus’ is a tribute to Old Man Garvey, but there’s nothing on the sleeve to tell you so. ’How Can We Ease the Pain’ and ‘lt Ain’t Easy’ are generalisations in a world which is becoming sick of sermons. Maxi seems to know this, and is thus a reluctant interviewee. At least we know his heart is in the right place.
Maxi Priest makes the sort of music you put on when the temperature wanders into the 30s, when the fridge is working overtime and the view in front of you is a splendid summer vista. And in the middle of winter, he’ll give you happy memories. His achingly sweet interpretations of Cat Stevens’ ‘Wild World’ and the soul standard ‘Some Guys Have All the Luck’ should have the programmers of even the most MOR radio stations smiling.
Maxi is an outstanding singer, and continues to team up with matchless musicians. On his last outing, Intentions, he was backed by the core of Aswad. This time, he puts himself in the hands of Sly Dunbar and Robbie Shakespeare, who prove conclusively that they are the world's premier rhythm section. No other team could turn out such a mindwarping work as Rhythm Killers and then play with such subtlety and precision as they do on Maxi. No surprises, but no disappointments either. 
Artist: Faster Pussycat
Album: Faster Pussycat
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: lan Plowman 
“Hey dude!” . “Whaddya mean ‘HM’ or ‘heavy rock’ or whatever? Out here in LA this is pop music. It’s what all the kids are into. Rick Rubin didn't invent nothin’ man, he jst homogenised the whole 18-year-old population of the USA. Like rappers sing about fast food, fast girls and hangin’ in NY, an’ we sing about er... fast cars, fast girls and hangin' in LA. 
“We ain’t dumb, we got more references than any college grad. We took our name from a Russ Meyer trash film and he returned the compliment by directing our nice’n’sleazy video. We like the Sex Pistols and the Rolling Stones. We use all of Aerosmith’s old riffs. We even got a hymn to the NY Dolls called ‘Babylon’ that features scratching (check it!). Hey, feet in the past, face in the future. Big beats, big guitars, big fun.” If this record came to your party it would drink all your wine, sleep with your girlfriend and piss on your carpet, then leave you its phone number. It’s baaad, it kicks, it makes you want to go out and do it, and that's as good as a rock’n’roll album can be. A work of genius. 
Artist: Number Nine 
Album: Nowhere Fast 
Record Label: Jayrem 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
Recorded at Frontier Studios in only two days, this 12 track album showcases the energetic approach of Wellington’s Number Nine. 
When it gets “dumb” (‘Hey Joe, RIP’), reggaefied (‘Backbeat’) or sloppy and out of time (‘ln My Room’) Nowhere Fast is less than memorable, but the stronger tracks such as ‘Everything’ highlight what almost amounts to pop sensibilites on Number Nine’s part, offset nicely by the heavier approach of the second side, where busy and loud songs of Cultish proportions have a sound that does both the one day recording and the band credit. Check out Tm Not Sure,’ 'Touch and Go.’
Had it been an EP (including of course ‘Creeping Stone,’ the sole live recording on Nowhere Fast) I may have said, “Yes, Radio Birdman,” but as is, it’s only half-good; good enough though, to have me still interested in a follow-up to Nowhere Fast from this band. 
Artist: Monty Python’s Flying Circus 
Album: The Final Rip Off 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: lan Morris
SHOP ASSISTANT: Can I help you, sir? 
CUSTOMER: I wish to register a complaint. This record, what I bought not half an hour ago from this very boutique, is dead. 
SA: Nah, nah. It’s just resting.
Greatest hits packages tire easily. 
C: Resting?
SA: Well some of the sketches are nearly 20 years old, sir. 
C: That's not the point, tosh. There may be ‘Cheese Shop,’ ‘Novel Writing’ and ‘Bruces,’ but where’s ‘Flying Sheep’? 
SA: Not much call for it round here, Major. 
C: Not much call? It’s the single most popular sketch in the world among university students.
SA: It didn’t travel well down the years.
C: And when I got the record home I found out the only reason it’s been released is because Virgin have acquired the rights. 
SA: Well, every comedy show since has been influenced by the Pythons. 
C: That’s as maybe ... 
SA: And where would Christchurch pub-goers be if they couldn’t stand round doing ‘The Parrot Sketch’ all night... 
C: I see, I see ... I get the picture. 
SA: And there’s even an ad on the tele now that rips off ‘The Lumberjack Song.’ 
C: Indeed. 
SA: So what did you expect? Something completely different? [fade]
Artist: Various
Album: Full Metal Jacket 
Record Label: Warners 
Album: The Leading Edge 
Record Label: WEA 
Album: The Untouchables 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
The simplest way to classify film music is into that which is original and that which isn’t. These days the former usually means predominantly instrumental (with maybe a vocal theme-song for radio exposure) while the latter suggests a collection of songs meant to evoke a time period and/or mood.
Some movies try for both. The album from Full Metal Jacket has a side with six of its eight tracks chosen from the time of American involvement in the Vietnam War. Some great 60s hits fulfill a typically ironic function for director Kubrick. We get such trash classics as ‘Woolly Bully’ and ‘Surfin’ Bird’ accompanying the aftermath of battle. Side two of the album consists of an original synthesiser score that, outside the film, is nigh on unlistenable.
A similar “half and half” approach is taken with the music for The Leading Edge. That it is a New Zealand film made for an overseas (adventure/ vacation) marketplace is reflected in its choice of recordings: some from here and some from elsewhere. The local ones are often very good indeed, including Debbie Harwood, Wayne Gillespie, and Herbs’ aptly named ‘Travelling in Style.’ And, unlike Full Metal Jacket, the original instrumental score on side two has some fine moments to recommend it also. Again it's local and, while utilising many talents, the rich and versatile talents of guitarist Mike Farrell shine in particular. 
When an overseas movie is going for the full original score approach, it always adds prestige if the producers can engage a big name composer. And right now they don’t come any bigger, in movie circles that is, than Ennio Morricone. The days of scoring spaghetti westerns are long gone. His last work was the grandiose choral and symphonic sweep that accompanied The Mission. While some of us may have found that rather overblown, Time magazine thought it important enough to devote a full page to Morricone. Here, for The Untouchables, he at least restrains himself to an orchestra, but has again written with an overt sense of majesty (to complement film director Brian De Palma’s mythologising approach no doubt). Like most original scores it runs out of ideas well before midway on side two. Much is purely functional, the usual tension building sounds, but there are a couple of rather lovely themes in there too. Enough to ensure Morricone's current asking price for sure, but for we consumers, really only sufficient to warrant putting out on two sides of a 45. 
Artist: Sisters of Mercy 
Album: Floodlands 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: lan Plowman 
Chapter One 
O, children, hear ye. Gather round and remember a time, and what a time it was. From the colde country they came, Johnny Punkrock’s younger brothers. Many and hairy they were, all they needed was a big helping of bangers’n’mash and a weekend on the Costa del Sol, but instead they found drugs and American accents, and the Big Beat. It mattered not that they could only play their guitars one-string-at-a-time, for who can frug to Chopin anyhow. 
WEA agreed, but as we partook of the album, the video, and the myth, suddenly the Sisters of Mercy were no longer with us; lost in a sea of ego and indulgence. And so it came to pass that the kids returned to the disco, former leader Andrew Eldrich retired to Toytown, and his ex-collagues (henceforth known as the Mission) were left to drag their flaccid hippy-pop about the Charts’ nether regions.
Chapter 2 
Lo! The return. Andrew Eldrich, sidekick Patricia Morrison, and a cast of thousands bring us one of the biggest, sleaziest pop records since the excess of the 70s, and indeed it’s former Meatloaf man Jim Steinman who pumps it up to operatic scale (and the Top 10). Truly epic, as if Moses came down from the mountain with a tape deck in one arm and a medecine cabinet in the other.
But Eldrich seems unwilling to go completely over the top, and it’s a feeling of indecision, of reserve, that gives ‘Floodlands’ its patchy moments. My favourite track, ‘Lucretia,’ just kicks along, but is followed by the oh-so-melancholy ‘1959,’ where a post-trip Eldrich tinkles the ivories on his way to the floor. The original cover cast Eldrich as leather sex-god and Morrison as luscious, pouting shedevil against a brilliant red background. The cover we end up with is a well-mystic and dead silly shot of their faces superimposed over moon and sea. The Sisters of Mercy could cast giant shadows, but first they have to stop standing around in them. 
Artist: Metallica 
Album: The $5.98 EP: Garage Days Revisited 
Record Label: Polygram 
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
Helpless, helpless. Whadda way to return after the tragic death of Cliff Burton and introduction of new bassist Jason Newsted. Five of their favourite songs taken from various bands and given the Metallica treatment.
The first is a Diamond Head number played so fast and hellatight that it could easily be one of James Hetfield’s own. The haunting ‘Small Hours’ is next, originally done by an obscure HM band called Holocaust. Then it’s time for Killing Joke’s ‘The Wait’ to get a butchering (wonder what Jaz Coleman thinks of this?). Budgie song ‘Crash Course in Brain Surgery’ is quite similar to the 70s heavy rock version, and to finish, the Misfits are given a thrashing in a medley of ‘Last Caress/Green Hell’ that spontaneously speeds right off the edge. 
Metallica are still the best in their field and as they say, “You shouldn’t take all this too seriously, cos we don’t!" The $5.98 EP\s actually closer to $8 but it’s still a real bargain. 
Artist: Dokken 
Album: Back for the Attack
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn 
Heeere’s ... Don Dokken. Well the whole band really and it’s their fourth studio recording full of quality hard rockin’ tunes as usual. Don’s vocals are naturally ideal in this style of music, but you just can’t help homing in on the lightning licks laid down by George Lynch, a guitar hero that seems to be unknown here. Listen to the instrumental ‘Mr Scary’ and you’ll find out in a big way. Other goodies are ‘Kiss of Death,’ ‘Burning Like a Flame’ and ‘Cry of the Gypsy.’ See Nightmare on Elm St 3 and hear their ‘Dream Warriors’ track, or an even better idea would be to check out Dokken’s own video Unchain the Night.