Artist: Robbie Robertson 
Album: Robbie Robertson 
Record Label: Geffen 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
More than any other group, the Band deserved to be called the Band. They were group players and singers, listening to each other with an intercommunication that meant they spoke with one voice. Actually, almost all of their material was written by Robbie Robertson, who stood back and let the rest of the group sing his vignettes from American history. His songs were heartland adventures, hillbilly ballads that seemed like contemporary myths, but were as relevant as the next meal.
Robertson was a great songwriter in the traditional mould, and his great strength as a musician was knowing what to leave out. At a time when guitar heroes were proliferating, he could say more with a few delicate stutters. He also knew to keep quiet when he had nothing to say, which is why he abandoned the music treadmill a decade ago, content to make statements through soundtracks for Martin Scorsese.
Now, he's made an re-entry with a profound album of songs that retain their earthiness, but have a sound for the CD age. Robertson enlisted Daniel Lanois as co-producer, and not only is the influence of the man who crafted Peter Gabriel and U2’s recent albums crucial, but those two artists make characteristic contributions. It’s a difficult, brooding album of songs that are introspective rather than engaging sagas, but it’s worth the effort. The melodies are like shifting sands, difficult to grasp hold of, but inevitably seeping into your consciousness. 
Among the peaks are ‘Fallen Angel,’ Robertson’s extremely affecting homage to his Band colleague Richard Manual, the haunted pianist with the huge heart who hanged himself last year. Heartwrenching but subtle, Gabriel assists on vocals to give it a beautiful choral feel. At times you can almost hear the Band singing together, whooping to be heard over each other, particularly on Showdown at Big Sky,’ with biblical lyrics and stained glass harmonies. The Dylanesque ‘Broken Arrow,’ would be a perfect vehicle for Levon Helm to bring out the tears. 
‘Sweet Fire of Love,' the superior of the two U2 collaborations, naturally has an epic quality. It’s as large as a cathedral but as intimate as a tabernacle, with Robertson’s spontaneity offsetting Bono’s strict vocal. Side two has full-on rockers, the cautionary tale 'American Roulette,’ ‘Hell’s Half Acre’ and the chilling ‘Sonny Got Caught’ — images of bad card games and tattoo parlours, a lowlife neon-lit dream like the Tom Waits-ian recitation 'Somewhere Down the Crazy River.’
Robertson’s great creative burst was the first three Band albums, written after an upbringing on the road. Then, the quality deteriorated because really, he’d said his piece. This return is dark and uneasy, beautifully crafted and eloquent. If J D Salinger emerged from reclusion with as strong a work, it would be just as heartening. 
Artist: Squeeze 
Album: Babylon and On 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: George Kay
With a fairly basic pun as its title, Squeeze have crept in to announce that they’re back with their first album since 1985’s Cosi Fan Tutti Frutti. It’s getting difficult to type above the choruses of “Who cares?” but 10 years ago Chris Difford and Glen Tilbrook were the Eastender’s answer to Elvis Costello with their sassy Cool For Cats album. 
The consensus is that they peaked with East Side Story, and since then Difford and Tilbrook have relied on their craft rather than attacks of spontaneous genius to keep the band going. Babylon and On, while not a bad album (few bad albums are made these days, as everything is so controlled and researched to the extent where the words “mediocre” and “bad” should change places) lurches along in the same grooves — namely Tilbrook’s lived-in vocals and the tight competent grind of a band headed by Difford with Jools (The Tube) Holland once more on keyboards. 
The best songs come in the shape of ‘Footprints’ with its after-party downer creep, ‘Tough Love’ with an accordion adding to the wife abuse-alcoholic husband broil, and ‘853-5937,’ which cashes in on the irresistable don’t-call-her-she’ll-call-you lonely hearts club. Elsewhere ‘The Prisoner’ chugs along valiantly but fails to change gear, and ‘Cigarette of a Single Man’ almost hits the nerve of the loneliness of the long distance bachelor. The rest is men-at-work, nine-to-five songs, untouched by excitement or inspiration. The Squeeze is hardly resulting in sparks. 
Artist: Stevie Wonder 
Album: Characters 
Record Label: Motown
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Stevie Wonder’s been making good records for about 25 yeas now. So it figures that his latest album Characters is yet another solid achievement in a long career marked by them. 
If 1985’s In Square Circle was a well-crafted but somewhat uninspired work, Characters rights the balance. It may contain only a couple of additions to his considerable canon of masterpieces, but there are few fillers and a lot of plain excellence. 
The gems include the first single, ‘Skeletons,’ a funky drama about the perils of keeping things hid that demonstrates yet again what a sophisticated lyricist Wonder has become since those unsteady beginnings last decade. Characters also includes probably the best of the current crop of duets with Michael Jackson; a highspirited paean to Friday night with ‘ln Your Corner, ’ and in ‘One of a Kind, ’ a certifiable addition to his long list of classic love songs. 
Even the songs here that fall back on to familiar ideas are re-invented with sufficient freshness and arranging skill to rescue them from dullness. So I guess any sense of diappointment springs from that very familiarity: there’s nothing completely new here. But it disappoints only against the high standards he’s achieved in the past. So that if, like me, you’ve ever enjoyed one Stevie Wonder album, you’ll embrace Characters. 
Artist: Tom Waits 
Album: Frank’s Wild Years 
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Kerry (Hold the Ice) Buchanan 
The piano hasn’t been drinking, but I bet you a 10-spot that Tom has been hitting the sauce. Some albums speak to you with whiskey on their breath, but this baby is like emptying the jacuzzi, filling it with Old Pale Gold and just wallowing. 
Tom's early works are like Bukowski with a beat, bo-ho to the max, a bit of bedroom romanticism and barroom sentimentalism. Music for intellectual drunks. Now Frank’s Wild Years is a different glass of J&B over rocks indeed — the grand finale to the trilogy started by Swordfishtrombone, continued by Raindogs, and hit on the head by this little beauty. 
A gem floating in the sea of vinyl shit, a bit off the planet, but as they said in Blue Velvet, “It’s a strange world.” Now the actual song is from Swordfishtrombone about Frank the furniture salesman living with his wife and her chihuahua called Carlos. Well Frank gets pissed on Mickey's Big Mouths (the world’s strongest brewski) and torches the whole schebang. Here we find Frank a free man, ready, well, to set the world on fire.
On a roll with the first track, ‘Hang on St Christopher,’ setting off with religious zeal and going ‘Straight to the Top’ in strict rumba time. But things don’t go too smooth, there are regrets in the sublime ‘Innocent When You Dream,’ but when the booze wears off, Frank’s back and off to New York. In a scorching Vegas version of ‘Straight to the Top, ’ Frank sounds like an Italian songbird. Move over Dean Martin and tell Sinatra the news.
Each track has its own interesting musical texture, and if any of you are into structuralism, there are some wild sub-texts that only Tom and a few drunks could understand. Like the previous two albums, this one has pump organs and things like the Optigon making noises, and don’t you just love that Farfisa beat on ‘Telephone Call from Istanbul.’ 
Like a fresh tattoo before it scabs, an album of tingling beauty, just like a Jackson Pollock painting, this just drips with drunken wisdom. 
Hey Tom, you’re my sort of guy. 
Artist: Sting 
Album: Nothing Like The Sun
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor 
This is a very mellow album, a more complex version of the jazz-coloured Dream Of The Blue Turtles. The wide range of musical influences give Sting’s lyrics (heavy on the bibliography, ridiculously simple on the rhyme) and his moods room to move. When he’s at his best (mature, sensitive, literary) Sting is the best; ‘Lazarus Heart’, ‘They Dance Alone’ and ‘We’ll Be Together’ are as good as ‘Tea in The Sahara’ or his live version of ‘Burn For You’, I swear. But when Sting’s at his worst (pompous, opinionated, bombastic) he dies a thousand deaths. ‘We’ll Be Together’ was a sexy and carefree single but one hearing of the B-side, the insane ‘Ode To A Dog’, and you could feel your affection for his work drawing back like fat on water.
Nothing Like The Sun doesn't have too many songs like ‘Ode To A Dog’. The experiments and lofty concepts work because Sting writes good hooks and his band (the Blue Turtles nucleus of Kirkland, Marsalis and co.) can play beautifully. They really do have a good sound; the best side of expensive-sounding jazz, busy and absorbing. 
Funnily enough, it takes another man’s song (Hendrix's ‘Little Wing'), arranged and played by someone else and his band (Gil Evans and his orchestra) and another man’s lead guitar (Hiram Bullock) to remind Sting and the listener that the man can sing. He’s a natural performer but is too fickle and too intelligent to leave the backroom-work to someone else; Nothing Like The Sun is very much a solo album, however many people are helping out. It’s a double-disc album, 12 songs that range from the sublime to the ridiculous. And ‘Lazarus Heart', ‘We’ll Be Together' and ‘Little Wing', jeez, they take my breath away every time. 
Artist: Hunters & Collectors 
Album: What’s a Few Men? 
Record Label: White Label 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
This, the sixth Hunters & Collectors album, makes one helluva big noise, but unfortunately it’s not always the sweet blast of their wall-of-sheer-joy horn section; it’s a big drum sound and strident guitar backing Mark Seymour’s war cry — R&B here we come! 
Human Frailty was going that way, and What's a Few Men? completes the job. Right from the opening bars of ‘Faraway Man,’ you’re aware that both the songs and production (courtesy of American Greg Edwards) are going raw R&B in a big way. 
It’s a good record though, showcased on their recent (“tight as a duck’s arse”) live shows. The best songs — shuddering anti-nuclear Pacific pride in ‘Breakneck Road,’ the angry whine of “hey sir, you got a dollar for a drink?" in ‘You Can Have it All’ and the ballad ‘What’s a Few Men?’ — cut through and stand out a mile. There’s added stuff (strings and harmonica) but the essence of the record is almost the resounding hollow “boom!” of John Archer’s drums. Not the groundbreaker that Human Frailty was, and containing nothing of the calibre of ‘Throw Your Arms Around Men,’ nevertheless, a decent consolidation. 
I just hope that they can hold together and keep workin’ on up. This boy’ll keep cornin’ back for more. 
Artist: UB40 
Album: The Best of 
Record Label: DEP 
Reviewed By: George Kay
UB40 appeared at a time when British reggae, via the antics of Madness, the Specials and the Beat, was seizing centre stage. It's common enough knowledge that they took their name from the unemployment benefit form, and that in itself was a tell-tale sign of their honourable if earthbound musical intentions.
Their trademarks of Ali Campbell’s slow ’n’ easy smokey vocals, garnished by Brian Travers’ sleepy tenor sax made their first two singles, ‘King/ Food for Thought’ and ‘My Way of Thinking,’ ideal summer cruisin’-in-the-shade fare — a contrast to the combustion of the free 12” singles that were handed out with ther first two albums. From their second LP, Present Arms, this Best of features ‘1 in 10,' and although few could argue with its humanitarian plea, the band was beginning to sound sterile. 
Suspicions of early arthritis were confirmed with their cover of Neil Diamond’s ‘Red Red Wine,’ a charttopper after four of their own singles had died in 1982-3. That cover was a shrewd career move, as it paved the way for others, including their sober attempt at Jimmy Cliff’s ‘Many Rivers to Cross,’ and culminating in their duet with Chrissie Hynde on ‘I Got You, Babe.’ 
UB40 could hardly be accused of pretension, in fact their low-key passionless approach has always needed a shot of adrenalin or adventure. And this Best of (Vol 1) is evidence of a band who’ve found it hard going to sustain the little momentum that they initially mustered. 
Artist: The Smiths 
Album: Strangeways Here We Come 
Record Label: Rough Trade 
Reviewed By: George Kay
Reviewed By: This was recorded before the recent rift with Marr, and he’s been quoted as saying that it’s probably the best thing they’ve ever done. And he’s not far wrong, as Strangeways dishes up fewer of the typically Smiths’ indulgences that have disrupted the magic and moods of their previous long players, compilations obviously excluded. 
In an album bleeding pessimism Marr, as usual, counters Morrissey's black moods and humour with some simple but inspired playing on the 10 songs. ‘Girlfriend in a Coma’ is already an ideal single — wistful and honest with its love/hate dilemma and add to that ‘A Rush and a Push and the Land is Ours' as another potential single, thanks to Marr’s piano underlay and some phrasing from the bard that wrings emotion out of the song.
Every Smiths’ album has a couple of pivotal tracks, namely things like ‘Suffer Little Children,’ ‘How Soon is Now?’ and ‘The Queen is Dead.’ They're generally tortured (torturous?) epics that can either make or break the record as far as continuity is concerned. On Strangeways, side one is built around ‘Death of a Disco Dancer,’ one of their better opuses, which slowly builds in intensity before falling into the comparative relaxation of ‘Girlfriend in a Coma’ and then up a notch for ‘Stop Me if You’ve Heard This One Before.’ 
Side two revolves around ‘Paint a Vulgar Picture,’ where a great ringing guitar intro throws Morrissey into an invective on record company exploitation. Its simplicity, directness and sheer presence make it one of their finest moments. The album closes with the selfish but haunting sentiments of ‘I Won’t Share You.’
It’s a short step from melancholy to self-pity and that's an accusation that’s often been levelled at Morrissey. Only the dense, mournful disorientation of ‘Last Night I Dreamt that Somebody Loved Me’ could be said to be self-pitying — and that’s open to debate. He’s also come under fire for his affectations — those effete, theatrical vocal displays and eccentric poses that seem premeditated to go against the prevailing sense of authenticity in order to antagonise purists and articulate the failing of the English within the brilliance of Marr’s rock and roll. 
While other bands have followed the decline and fall of political Britain, the Smiths have sketched and recorded the lives of the people who’re suffering, and there’s no doubt that Morrissey, for all of his alleged poses, has captured and described the human condition at a time when British rock ’n’ roll needed a band to pick up the ball dropped by the likes of Echo and the Bunnymen a few years ago. And as Strangeways proves for the fourth time round, they’ve made noises, although imperfect, that have the resonance and relevance that makes great rock ’n’ roll. 
Artist: Jill Jones 
Album: Jill Jones
Record Label: Paisley Park 
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
As a “Prince spotter” I wonder if my perspective is politically sound. One could end this review with “a must for Prince fans”... beginning the review is not so easy.
The album is a curio for Prince spotters as he co-wrote four tracks, wrote one alone (1979’s ‘With You'), produced three songs and the powerhouse All Day All Night' is one of the last tracks he did with the Revolution, a track I’d readily put on a Prince best efforts compilation. 
What happens when the lights dim and Prince’s star is absent? Well, Jill and Revolution member David Z take over producing and various combos of musos play, from session veteran Steve Gadd and Idol socialite Steve Stevens to Minneapolis sons Jellybean Johnson and Eric Leeds (of Madhouse). These differing backdrops provide Jill Jones with the space to strut her vocal style. She writes and produces in the quirky manner associated with Prince’s spin-offs such as Shiela E and Family, yet her tough vocals and world weary persona help her to avoid the pitfall of artful preciousness that consumed the earlier Paisley projects. 
Ironically, Ms Jones may have learnt some of her vocal licks from Tina Marie, the protegee of arch Prince rival Rick James, as Mrs Jones (Jill’s mother) managed Marie’s career. Maybe the two universes of the Princes of pimp pomp touch here on this album — who cares? 
What’s clear is that Jill Jones doesn’t need Prince to write a good song — all three of her sole writing credits are hot — ‘Baby You ’re a Trip, ’ ‘My Man’ and ‘Violet Blue’ are great tracks. This lady may not have decisively broken out of the Paisley Park mould with this debut LP, but she sure is a prime contender to do so if she can keep her groove growing. 
Artist: Nona Hendryx 
Album: Female Trouble 
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
It’s four years now since Nona Hendryx’s first RCA solo LP, Nona, with such classic tracks as ‘Keep it Confidential,’ ‘Living on the Border’ and ‘BBoys.’ At the time, she described this excellent album as a “compromise” and followed it with two hard-edged rock-funk albums The Art of Defence and The Heat. The former LP contained the groundbreaking ‘I Sweat (Going Through the Motions).’
As rock has met funk on more than one front of late — Prince’s Purple Rain, Run DMC’s ‘Walk This Way’—it is surprising that NOna Hendryx, who is New York based, hasn’t collaborated with artists from the hip-hop scene. Somehow her explorations remain left-of-centre and isolated from the mainstreams of black music. Though she is a significant innovator, achievements such as ‘I Sweat’ have never really inspired imitators or followers or recognition.
With Female Trouble, Nona has done an album more akin to that first RCA solo LP, mixing the strident power of ‘Rhythm of Change’ with more melodic tracks such as ‘Why Should I Cry’ or ‘Winds of Change.’ The latter track is a moving tribute to the loving commitment of civil rights activists Winnie and Nelson Mandela, a chilling ballad where Nona is joined by Peter Gabriel for a great performance that rekindles the majesty of Gabriel’s modern masterpiece ‘Biko.’ 
My fave track is ‘Baby Go Go, ’ a dePrincified workout on a Princepenned song with Nona assisted by Mavis Staples and George Clinton. I’m really hangin’ out to get the 12” version of this stompin’ funkiful thang. 
Female Trouble is a great album, but worlds apart from an LP like Janet Jackson’s Control. Here the onus is on energy and emotion rather than finely crafted and polished songs. 
One might think that Nona’s battle for recognition is against chauvinism or racism, but really the enemy may be within — “soulism.” A doctrine that says thou can flirt (even wallow) in the middle of the road, but thou shalt not get rocky. This creed is perpetuated by the record producing style council, music media and soul fans worldwide.
While others get wimpy, Nona gets tuff. Timely, yet somehow out of step with the contemporary milieu due to the independence of her vision. Check it out. 
Artist: Aztec Camera 
Album: Love 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: George Kay
Roddy Frame has always regarded himself as a student of rock ’n’ roll. In the early 80s he emerged from a Scottish scene besotted by Velvet Underground influences. No bad thing, and certainly one of the best places to start, as he proved with the innocent High Land, Hard Rain. But with three years separating Aztec Camera’s last album, Knife, and the current Love, Frame has tried to sneak back into contention with what he sees is the accepable coinage of the day — smooth, unruffled white cabaret soul not unlike the type crooned on the last Style Council album.
The gap between Knife and Love isn’t one of sentiment but of style, and Frame’s mistaken perception of what it takes to adapt, make a comeback and survive. I’m sure he can rationalise the funky tedium of ‘Deep and Wide and Tall’ and ‘Everybody is a Number One,’ and the sluggish balladeering of ‘How Men Are’ and ‘Paradise’ as attempts at contemporary adult nightlife, but Alexander O’Neal he ain’t. Like Weller, Frame mistakes sleepiness for seduction and the night time might be the right time for the right lover, but it’s a trap for white boys. Only the sumptuous atmosphere and tune of ‘Working in a Goldmine,’ the comparatively frontal funk attack of ‘One and One’ and the more familiar Aztec Camera ring of the delicate ‘Killermont St,’ escape this thing called Love unscathed. As an album this is an overmarketed attempt at re-entry and readjustment. If Frame only realised that what we could have used now was another Knife.
Artist: Pink Floyd 
Album: A Momentary Lapse of Reason 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: David Perkins 
After the Final Cut we were lead to believe that the Pink Floyd had been laid to rest. Wright had left, and Waters had essentially hijacked the band for his own increasingly depressing themes, which reached their culmination on Final Cut. This lead to personal differences and the demise of Pink Floyd as an entity. 
Gilmour and Mason enjoyed little commercial success with their own albums, hence the resurrection of Pink Floyd with Wright rejoining as a player only. What we have on A Momentary Lapse of Reason is essentially a new hijack, with Gilmour taking over where Waters left off. 
So how successful is the new Pink Floyd? In commercial acceptance terms, Gilmour has pulled off a cracker. For years there has existed a vacuum for the highly sophisticated electronics pioneered by the Pink Floyd on Dark Side of the Moon, and A Momentary Lapse of Reason hones up the techniques and production used there to create a very successful 1987 version.
Not that the songs bear any similarity, but the overall sound is reminiscent of that enduring classic. From the initial cauldron of sound on ‘Signs of Life’ to the pulverising notes on ‘Sorrow’ there is no let up. Gilmour’s searing guitar and Mason’s explosive drumming breathe fire into this recording with ‘Learning to Fly,’ ‘On the Turning Away’ and ‘The Dogs of War’ amongst the highlights. 
What is abundantly clear is that there is no way this recording is remotely a momentary lapse of reason. A more appropriate title may have been a new skin for the old ceremony. Welcome back Pink Floyd, and expect a sellout crowd for the Springs concert in January. They have no peers in this genre of popular music. 
Artist: Steve Earle 
Album: Early Tracks 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: lan Morris 
The baby-faced, hand-tinted cover to this record of 1983 sessions smacks of a quick cash-in. But if you look closer it’s easy to trace, with hindsight, Steve Earle’s development as a singer, writer and producee (sic) through 1986’s Guitar Town to the Springsteen politics of this year’s Exit 0.
The sound is guitar-raw, echoing John Fogerty’s hybrid rockabilly Sun sound, in the style of Guitar Town's ‘Think It Over.' Sounding like outtakes from one of Earle’s recent albums are ‘The Devil’s Right Hand’ (an occasionally twee story of a boy buying his first gun — “Mama said a pistol is the Devil’s right hand...”) and ‘Breakdown Lane,’ one of two songs that aren’t self-penned. In fact any of the songs on Early Tracks, with slicker production and more attention paid to making the boy sing in tune, would sit comfortably with late-80s Earle. 
Of the country big three of 1986, Earle, Yoakam and Travis, Steve Earle gets played the most in my house these days. Just a good rockin’ daddy from Tennessee. 
Artist: Low Profile 
Album: Elephunkin’ 
Record Label: Jayrem 
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne
Low Profile have achieved a remarkable album in Elephunkin’. Revamping the much acclaimed ‘Elephunk,’ the rtitle track, the album kicks off with a bang and never looks back. 
Rhythm and mood exploration are the keynotes to this album. Each song finds the record breaking new ground and it never becomes jumbled or overblown. Take the mysterious 'Through the Dark,’ with its haunting, compelling lyrics and evocative bass line (mmm let me lie and listen all day!), or ‘Cutting Edge,’ with its bright and snappy rhythmic twists which will have your hips shaking all night long — brilliant contrasts in mood and rhythms.
Low Profile is Steve Garden and Phil Bowering, both of them stalwart contributors, but perhaps not fully recognised, to the New Zealand music scene. On this record they have gathered together an amazing pedigree of New Zealand musicians — from Chris Green and Stuart Pearce to Debbie Harwood and Annie Crummer, to name a few. And what a spectacular injection of creative ability these guests have introduced (and credit is given where it is due). Top marks to Low Profile for harnessing this into a soundly produced album which challenges the production and engineering feats of bands such as Pink Floyd or Talking Heads. 
Elephunkin’ falls conveniently into two sides. Side one is uptempo, while side two is moody and evocative. The versatility of this record lies in the nonalignment to any particular “sound.” All instruments from synthesisers to trumpets and guitars are used, creating a textured landscape of sound — it is quite beautiful, and such a full production sound is rarely heard in New Zealand music.
This album is creative, it has feeling and sensitivity — what more do you want? Standout cuts on the record are two many to mention. The whole album is a joy: mature musicianship. For me, the best of the year. 
Artist: Motorhead
Album Rock’n’Roll 
Record Label: GWR
Reviewed By: Geoff Dunn
All the things you could want in a Motorhead record are on this one. For starters that lovely chap Philthy Animal Taylor is back to thrash the drums to smithereens in his own uncontrollable way, and Lemmy of course is Lemmy. Growling and spitting out his tales of revenge (‘Traitor’), fear (‘Boogeyman’), politics (‘Dogs’) and love (‘Rock ’n’ Roll’). Python person Michael Palin adds to the humour with a poem about the band and their trousers after the track ‘Stone Dead in the USA,’ which sounds like something from Overkill period. Loud, mean and drooling — in other words, this album is total Motorhead all the way.
Artist: Stump 
Album: Quirk Out 
Record Label: Chrysalis
Reviewed By: PM
Quirkiness is that oddball quality that the English play at so well, and don’t Stump know it. With the minialbum Quirk Out Stump turn on to the best Beefheartian excesses of XTC, produced into a big (and no denying it, bouncy) noise by Hugh Jones. Seen the video y’all? ‘Buffalo’ is a great song, a standout. ‘Tupperware Stripper’s a fun one, close second. Check out all six — alongside This Petrol Emotion’s Babble, the best of British ’B7. Geddit. How much is that fish?
Artist: Public Image Ltd 
Album: Happy? 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: PM
Album’s finest moments were the best PIL output for nearly a decade. With a completely new lineup (including John McGeoch, once of Magazine, Siouxsie and the Banshees, Armoury Show), John Lydon falls flat with Happy? The single ‘Seattle’ isn't a patch on ‘Rise,’ and nowhere among Happy?s eight tracks is there a song that, quite honesty, rises above the level of mediocrity. Sadly file under “once promising”?
Artist: Olympic Sideburns 
Album: dixie truck stop! 
Record Label: Doc
Reviewed By: PM
As if the loathsome spectre of the Hoodoo Gurus on tour this month wasn’t enough, the Olympic Sideburns present - us with dixie truck stop!, a reminder that (aside from the quality trash output of the likes of the Lime Spiders) the worst of Australian music is a bombastic mash of rock n’ roll and pop elements with a backbeat too heavy for your stereo? I can appreciate its wild moments, but the best ones are far too few and far between. “Watch out baby / here I, come.” Yeah? I’m running away.
Artist: John O’Connor 
Album: Conversations
Record Label: Ode
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
If one had to guess at guitarist O’Connor’s musical background after hearing this album the scenario might go something along these lines. Back in the early 70s he was heavily influenced by Dave Gilmour’s sustain sound on Dark Side of the Moon. Then as the decade wore on he moved into jazz-rock, enjoying the chance to stretch out but still liking the dependency of that steady backbeat. Now he favours a more relaxed approach, reflecting the slower pace of life at home on Waiheke. Still keeping an ear open though. Conversations consists of nine instrumentals with titles like 'Bird Flight,’ ‘After Lunch’ and ‘Child’s Play.’ O’Connor is ably assisted by electric bass, percussion and Jenny McLeod on synth. The pieces are all O’Connor’s originals.