Artist: The Bats
Album: Daddy’s Highway 
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
Some clever people say that Robert Scott is the best songwriter in the country. You know why? It’s because he taps the essence of all instantly hummable, instantly likeable pop: simplicity. That’s been evident through all previous Bats records, but until now (aside from the fab 12” Made Up in Blue) those songs haven’t come even close to being fully realised in the studio. Now things change: Daddy’s Highway has it all, songs, performance (believe me, this band is humming), and finally, it’s a Bats record that doesn’t sound like it was recorded by the band in a wardrobe to a microphone on the other side of a brick wall. It doesn’t sound “huge” but it sounds right, and it’s a whole album, what's more. Twelve songs! 
Robert Scott’s words (“north by north / still following you”... “tragedy begins at home /so I'm told”) form part of a world view that observes things a lot more closely nowadays. Charming as they were, characters (Mr Earwig “feeling blue,” Claudine’s “father standing still”) have fallen by the wayside in favour of a more Scott-centered viewpoint. Now Scott sings it is “I” who is “feeling like a block of wood.” These are all songs closely revolving around familiar, personal themes; no ideology, just an intricate awareness of what’s going on around him, developing, like the song structures, complexity and that awareness through an accumulation of “simple” images.
His singing is now in tune,augmented by Kaye Woodward’s harmonies, and that enhanced focus on the central vocal melody frees up her guitar to stretch songs (‘Miss These Things,’ ‘Daddy’s Highway’) out a little. Elsewhere, the Rip’s Alistair Galbraith plays violin on three tracks; twice to good effect (‘Treason’ and ‘Sir Queen’), and finally on ‘North by North,’ where the Bats really catch you by surprise. Robert Scott calls it a “guitar freakout,” and when you add a manic violin skating across the top, it’s not exactly what Music from the Fireside would have led you to expect from a Bats album!
Ultimately, the best of a consistent bunch would have to be ‘North by North,’ ‘Sir Queen’ and the single ‘Block of Wood.’ All through the album, the Bats have a rhythm section, Paul Kean and Malcolm Grant, who provide Scott’s tunes with a robust edge — it’s not that their songs seem like they keep trying to run away from you, but it’s just that they can’t stop moving, so propulsive like they’re rushing headlong, over and over again. Laced across the top of that comes the lyrical charm and diversity of melodic temperament that really make Daddy's Highway. Don’t miss it. 
Artist: The Housemartins 
Album: The People Who Grinned Themselves to Death 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
Like some proletariat version of the Monkees, the Housemartins have returned to prove that their first album London 0, Hull4 was only a pilot for the series of sharply focused shots that make up The People Who Grinned Themselves to Death. 
Last year's Housemartins came on too cute, too eager to please. Still, their refusal to succumb to the glittering pop temptations of London in reference to remaining in the dowdiness of their homebase Hull was a merit point for integrity. And their wholesome, un-hip if slightly wet Caravan of Love EP vouched for the honesty of the convenient humanism and socialism of London 0's erratic attack.
The People Who Grinned reflects lessons learned. Scarcely pausing to check what’s on their sleeves they launch into the dangers of royalty spotting on the title track: “And even when their kids were staving / they all thought the Queen was charming.” P D Heaton’s words are as sharp as tacks as he crucifies yuppie smugness on ‘I Can’t Put My Finger On It’ and while the band cook like the Undertones on heat on ‘We’re Not Going Back,’ he pitches into nostalgia: “Do you remember the good old days? / An empty stomach and a tear-stained face.”
The ballad ‘Johannesburg’ (“I’d like to see a world without you”) is selfexplanatory, while ‘Pirate Aggro’ is an irrepressible Booker T ripoff. The price of progress where new slums replace old slums in New England is the subject of ‘Build,’ far and away their best effort at combining gospel and pop from the depths of Hull: “Treated us like plasticene town / They built us up and knocked us down.”
The People Who Grinned isn’t a radical shift in philosophy or musical style, rather it’s a consolidation and refinement of the strengths offered in their first album. This inoffensively named but cunningly subversive band have finally got the songs to match their impeccable politics and consciences. 
Artist: Bryan Ferry 
Album: Bete Noire 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor 
There’s a really odd side to fashion, a region where style becomes so mannered that it moves out of step with accepted tastes and becomes disturbing and weird. The English have it down pat, this slick, beautiful oddness — check out Harpers & Queen. Or listen to Bete Noire, which covers the same eccentric territory. 
Bryan Ferry records now arrive once every two and a bit years. Record companies would hope that he’s working at the same tempo as Michael Jackson; in reality, he’s probably working according to the winter solstice. Mr Ferry is getting more sordid as he ages, like an Edwardian count shot through with port and opium. In Bete Noire’s title track, backed by a trio of 60 year old tango musicians, Bryan gets so mannered that he nearly falls over. The record as a whole staggers: from patchy collaborations (‘Seven Deadly Sins’) to tres tight singles (‘Limbo,’ ‘The Right Stuff) and then stumbles across three of the best songs Ferry’s ever written.

‘Zamba,’ ‘Day For Night’ and the title track of Bete Noire are the said best. This is not bad going for someone old enough to be my dad who, depending on what interview you read, would rather be (a) a farmer, (b) a mountaineer, or (c) Grace Kelly. The panache with which they are arranged is equally satisfying, gazoolike horn riffs, screeching backing singers and constant “jungle” ambience, interrupted only by a digital watch alarm (listen for it!) and an “Indian” guitar riff courtesy of Windsor Davies.
Johnny Marr plays guitar, one of many musicians used on the album. Ferry himself only sings and, as is revealingly credited, “directs.” He has never cut a solo album with less than 15 other musicians on hand. Bete Noire, in its years of making, has involved about 30. New faces Marr and Patrick Leonard rub shoulders with old-timers Rhett Davies (on trumpet, I think), Tawatha Agee and Simon Puxley. Ferry has gathered a real family around him for recording purposes; there are only five or six names here which I could not find (in a very bored and pedantic moment) on at least one of his previous albums. 
I hope Bryan Ferry is still going at 60. He never did move overly fast, so there’s no worry about him slowing down (unlike Lou Reed and David Bowie, who look worse every year) and besides, I’d miss such a good line in tuxedos and whimsy. Judging by Bete Noire, things will only get better. Odder, hazier, more jaded and bleary, but better. 
Artist: Eric B and Rakim 
Album: Paid in Full 
Record Label: 4th & Broadway 
Reviewed By: Peter Grace 
The first thing that hits you about Eric B and Rakim is their attitude. It’s a problem. Rakim is a sardonic streetman, with a mocking, accusing rap style. Eric B is a teddy bear, but a pragmatic technician; he's gently arrogant. On Paid in Full they swagger through the album with a laissez faire cocksuredness. They work together easily, using classic beats like 70s James Brown, Barry White and Original Concept. It makes for great hiphop.
‘I Know You Got Soul’ and ‘Eric B is on the Cut’ are showcase pieces — literally a tour de force for their first album, but other tracks are just B-side remixes of the original singles. ‘Eric B is President’ is a shadow of its bad self, and ‘My Melody becomes a demo-thick recording of subsonic bass and reverbed vocals, it’s anarchic, and either a work of genius or vandalism. Perhaps the best fun comes from a Def Jam-styled ‘Paid in Full,’ where Eric acknowledges their management, Rush Productions, who are the other half of the Def Jam label. My betting is that with these associations, and some of Russell Simmons’ marketing discipline, Eric B and Rakim will wind up bigger and deffer on their next album. 
Artist: David Sylvian 
Album: Secrets of the Beehive 
Record Label: Virgin 
Artist: ABC 
Album: Alphabet City 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor
Two albums from musicians once at the forefront of UK fashion pop. ABC have overshot the scene once more; David Sylvian has opted out of it altogether. 
Sylvian’s is the most ambitious album. It is virtually all acoustic and, in his own words, places the emphasis on lyrics and songwriting. This is a bad move since neither are his strong points. Sylvian’s great and unexpected talent is in organising and collaborating with others, as his earlier Brilliant Trees and Gone to Earth prove. Both those albums were classics, and will be revered in years to come for their mood and their eloquence. Secrets of the Beehive (bad name for the NZ market, too) is just as worthy but, having dazzled us with the variety of Gone to Earth, its simplicity is disappointing, not refreshing. Buy his first two solo albums instead, they will keep you happier for a lot longer. 
ABC are still trying hard to break into the mainstream while retaining all their class and quirks. The fact that they have not been successful reminds you how full-on Ferry, Bowie and co are. Alphabet City contains three superb songs, but then again their previous How To Be a Zillionaire contained nine, and it got them nowhere. Louis Jardim, Anne Dudley and Bernard Edwards join them in the studio but Alphabet City has nd time for them; Martin Fry and Mark White bully all and sundry into playing the two-chord songs that graced their very first album. 
‘When Smokey Sings’ contains Fry’s best lyrics (“When Smokey sings / as she’s packing her things / the front door might slam / but the back door it rings”) and also his worst (“When Smokey sings/I hear violins”) but it remains a heavenly little number. ‘The Night You Murdered Love’ starts flat but ends up real good, and then you must wait until the end of side two for ‘One Day,’ the other winning ballad. In between, well, I can’t really remember what’s in between. I’ve gone back and put on Zillionaire, frankly. Maybe I’m just getting old. 
Artist: Paul Kelly and the Coloured Girls 
Album: Under the Sun 
Record Label: Mushroom
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
Last year’s Gossip didn’t make the front pages, but people are still talking about it. Paul Kelly’s double album of sagas and confessions struck a chord with everyone who heard it; in turn they passed the word down the line. Under the Sun, the followup, at first sounds like sides five and six of Gossip, but it’s a more focused work. Whereas Gossip gave the big picture, packed with detail, here the theme is strictly personal. Sun is full of intimate stories and images from relationships; it’s like reading through the pages of someone else’s diary. 
The songs are consistently strong, with fine melodies and evocative images. ‘Same Old Walk,’ a standout live, is also the album’s highpoint. A woman is observed, almost peeped on, by an ex-lover. Haunting organ and snappy drumming support the self-justification. While ‘Big Heart’ hints at country with its simple images and wailing pedal steel, ‘Don’t Stand So Close to the Window’ has an Irish lilt.
‘40 Miles to Saturday Night’ is quintessentially Australian. It’s a charming acoustic guitar driven lads’ celebration of the weekend, continuing the theme of the seminal 70s Oz film Sunday Too Far Away, finish the shearing and “kiss goodbye to two weeks’ pay.” ‘I Don’t Remember a Thing’ and ‘To Her Door’ have Springsteen scenarios: early marriage and drunken manslaughter, grim fables and honky tonk sounds.
Kelly’s vocal is aching and affecting, and his band of Coloured Girls are always there in support. They’ve benefited from constant live playing, tight but eloquent, particularly pianist Peter Bull (whose playing, especially on ‘Know Your Friends,’ is exquisite) and the taut drumming of Michael Barclay. The sound is 80s clean with no unnecessary fancy tricks, it all stands on the songs and performance. 
While not the king hit of Gossip, this is a strong followup—as consistent a collection of songs as John Hiatt’s or Springsteen’s recent works. The Australians and us may be equals in sport, but when it comes to music, the Kellys, H&C, etc, have depth and maturity we could well emulate. 
Artist: Paul Johnson 
Album: Paul Johnson 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: George Kay
It took only one song, ‘When Love Comes Calling,’ for Paul Johnson to revive interest in what can loosely be described as British gospel. He grew up singing in church in order to overcome a stammer, and now he’s guided by the sure hand of Junior Giscombe (the ‘Mamma Used to Say’ man), who produces and co-writes about half the songs on this debut.
Paul Johnson is a voice and an idealist. Moving in and out of the proLabour Red Wedge because it was too dogmatic, he’s also tried to break the stereotype of the black artist as merely bump’n’grind dancefloor fodder. Johnson’s case rests in his voice —a pure, clear and controlled vehicle that can brilliantly interpret the likes of Stevie Wonder’s ‘Heaven is 10 Zillion Light Years Away’ and transcend the original. ‘When Love Comes Calling’ and the lengthy but beautifully measured ‘New Love’ illustrate his ability at caressing and controlling a song using his falsetto to capture the emotions of love gone right and wrong. The other side of his talent is revealed by ‘Fear of Falling,’ which eases back on the funk throttle just to let the chorus glide, and ‘Are We Strong Enough?’ which is more emphatic with its victims-of-circumstance ring. 
The upshot is that at 25, Paul Johnson is young, gifted and black. He boasts no nasty bass, no Alexander O’Neal party time or D’Arby dreadlocks and dance stance. Just one helluva voice and a message. 
Artist: Bill Lake and the Living Daylights 
Album: A Bop in the Ocean 
Record Label: Eelman 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke 
With much-treasured releases by the Hulamen and the Pelicans, Wellington's occasional Eelman label has set itself high standards. Now here are the Living Daylights, a postPelican vehicle for the songs of Bill Lake and Arthur Baysting. A Bop in the Ocean is an album of fine songs, many of them equal to such Pelican moments as ‘Banana Dominion,’ 'Shuffleitis' and ‘Out of the Frying Pan.’ They’re songs with melody, character, clever word play and snappy playing. 
While the Pelicans music was carefully and slowly laid down, the Living Daylights chose to record Bop live in the studio, with very little overdubbing. Hearing such fine songs with a few rough edges is the only reservation I have about Bop — but “rough edges” when compared to the Pelicans, or compared to any other local record with low production values is a very relative term indeed. The Living Daylights play with life, dynamics, feel — and in tune. 
Two ballads here stand out amongst the R&B dancers. ‘Defrost Your Heart’ is the killer track, sung with passion by Bill Lake and the backing vocalists. Lyrical touches are added by Lake’s guitar and Alan Norman 's simple piano. ‘You’ve Got My Number' is another sad ballad, with a heartfelt sax solo, by Neville Schwabe. The Living Daylights music is full of many flavours, the New Orleans R&B of ‘Filthy Rich,’ the bouncy spiritual of ‘American Express,’ the lazy calypso of ‘Waiting for a Bus,' the Pacific reggae of ‘Watcha Gonna Do’ (sung beautifully by Ra Te Whaiti) and the R&B raveups at the end. Above all, what the Daylights have is feel, and crucial to that is the rhythm section of Ross Burge and Nick Bollinger. This is group playing — so few sound as if they’re actually listening to each other. It was a great idea to cut Bop live; with a little more work it could have been a knockout, but the songs and spirit are spot on. 
Artist: The Bible 
Album: Walking the Ghost Back Home 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: George Kay
An immodest name for a modest band who released this debut album on Norwich’s independent Backs label last year. Revolving around experienced second divisioners Bob Hewerdine (vocals and guitar) and Tony Shepherd (keyboards), the Bible, like Meet Danny Wilson and Microdisney, have that instant sophistication that comes from having played before and wanting to do the best by the songs. 
Their recent single, ‘Graceland,’ contains all their strengths, tight melody, nice percssive/guitar arrangement and a change of pace that keeps the song alive. ‘Mahalia’ also steals a few plaudits with its fair sax riff and neat bass line, and ‘King Chicago’ is worth mentioning courtesy of a delicate vibe motif, but their best showing is ‘She’s My Bible,’ a song with an effortless tune, so natural, so right. And that's the good news. 
Earlier this year they toured with China Crisis, which is pertinent because they both share a conservative love of form and predictability couched in solidly melodic songs that are unfortunately often bereft of depth and excitement. The title track, ‘Spend, Spend, Spend’ and the overlong ‘High, Wide and Handsome’ won’t incite any riots, and if the Bible, all competence aside, want to avoid the dull/bland tags that have hung around the likes of China Crisis, then they’ll have to raise the temperature on their next album.
Artist: Bird Nest Roys 
Album: Bird Nest Roys 
Record Label: Flying Nun 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar 
In their time, the Bird Nest Roys made some great rock’n’roll. Technically, drummer Peter was probably the only Roy good enough to even audition for something as dire as the Backdoor Blues Band, but that didn’t matter a shit: what mattered most was that the Bird Nest Roys played visually impressive, shambolic rock’n’roll, a mutie dance all crowded on stage, so many guitars and voices. 
On record, they were all fits and starts—neither the Whack It All Down EP, the single ‘Jaffa Boy,’ or ‘Who is the Silliest Rossi' on the Outnumbered by Sheep compilation ever really stung. So we’ve been waiting for this album, through endless fucked-up pressings, till we’re all beyond blue-in-the-face. And when you’re carked out from holding your breath for over a year,it’s stinging now because this record serves as a reminder that the Bird Nest Roys are well and truly gone.
But weren’t they always? Gone, I mean, as in “get real gone” — the key to Roy-appeal. Take an in-joke, make it drunk, all rubbery, put it in a dress or three ... weirdness, total loveable weirdness. That’s what makes this album, their parting gesture, a wee bit of a success, even though its flaws — an over-riding lack of presence on vinyl, especially in the guitars — threaten to mush out its sparkle. They can’t though; the songs are too good, a bit too ambient, to succumb to a cheap sound where all those guitars hum contentedly in unison. I could’ve asked for more, but at least there’s still the voices.
Sometimes, harking back to a band like Wire’s ability to take a two chord thrash (take ‘I am the Fly,’ for example) and inveigle that jelly pop with enough twist to turn your ears upside down, the BNRs hit on real psychodrama/delia for the first time on record. The likes of ‘Alien,’ ‘Loving Time’ and ‘Me Want Me Get Me Need Me Have Me Love’ mean that the Roys don’t really need the selfconscious (is it parodic?) “Roy art” of the album's closing track ‘Wads of Fat.’ The cow-punk ‘Bided’ almost misses too, but it’s redeemed by a real guitar crunch (near-smirch on the Velvets’ ‘Guess I’m Falling in Love,’ sound-wise). As well as all these, there are reruns of ‘Jaffa Boy’ and ‘Who is the Silliest Rossi,' plus the neo-surf ‘Love’ (“I’ve got empty animals for you.” Yay.) In short, the record that was always called for from the Bird Nest Roys appears at last. Walk with the beast, cos they've got loving, boys and girls. 
Artist: Various 
Album: The Big Easy soundtrack 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Chris Bourke
Suddenly New Orleans seems the place to set your movie, and Cajun the cuisine to put on your table. Following the steamy, confused Angel Heart comes The Big Easy, an acclaimed thriller with a soundtrack that’s like a primer of Louisianan music in one easy lesson — or perhaps it’s a gumbo. The DixieCups‘lkolko’and Professor Longhair’s ‘Tipitina’ are seminal, with the syncopated rhythms of the latter the kernel of the New Orleans sound: it’s all in those lurching moments where Longhair’s piano catches up with the band. Also included among the 10 tracks are Buckwheat Zydeco’s rollicking ‘Ma 'Tit Fille’ and Aaron Neville’s excruciatingly gorgeous ‘Tell It Like It Is’ from the Nevillization live LP. Other favourites include the Wild Tchoupitoulas — with the incomparable Meters rhythm section — and the Swan Silvertones’ sweet spiritual Saviour, Pass Me Not.’ 
The selections may be obvious, but that’s because they’re classics. But the surprise here is ‘Closer to You’ by actor Dennis Quaid. Bruce Willis he ain’t: Quaid is an excellent country balladeer in the Merle Haggard tradition, and the song, which he wrote, is good enough to be a a standard. Move over, Don Johnson, and tell Fats Domino the news. 
Artist: Steve Winwood 
Album: Chronicles 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson 
In his late teens and early 20s Steve Winwood worked at the edge of what was known in those days as “progressive” pop. His work with the Spencer Davis Group and Traffic — particularly its early years — has rightly attained classic status. However the later albums from Traffic and the hyped Blind Faith now sound dated. By the mid 70s Winwood had retired to his farm in Berkshire. Although an occasional track recorded with the likes of Stomu Yamashta proved he hadn’t become yet another rock burn-out, it was a welcome relief to greet his return to recording in 1977.
Chronicles includes only one track, ‘Vacant Chair,’ from that self-titled album and stuck here, in the middle of an 80s-oriented “best of” collection, it sounds a little low key. Nonetheless this reviewer regards 1977’s Steve Winwood the most consistently enjoyable of his whole subsequent career. It set him within a band — albeit of handpicked sessioneers — and in an atmosphere of gently rolling funk. However the next two albums, in 1980 and ’B3, were almost over-busy affairs, weakened by Winwood working solo as multi-instrumentalist. Thankfully the tracks represented here — three apiece — are the best ones and betray little of that flattening sameness characterising the original albums as a whole. (Tracks from the latter have also been re-mixed.)
Three more tracks from his recent Back in the High Life make up the remainder of Chronicles. Obviously one is the hit ‘Higher Love,’ but it is also pleasing to note the inclusion of ‘My Love’s Leavin’,' High Life's gentlest song and the one which most hearkens back to 1977. 
All told Chronicles is a worthwhile -compilation, because even if Steve Winwood no longer stands at the forefront of creativity in pop muse, his best work is still very creditable. Hardly likely to qualify for “boring old fart” status for a good time yet. 
Artist: Fat Boys 
Album: Crushin’ 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Kerry Buchanan 
In 1987, the year of the rap record, the boundaries disappeared and things got busy. LL Cool J produced the def-initive rap statement, 70s funk via cuts from James Brown gained prominence in records from Spoonie Gee and Eric B and Rakim laid down some chilling beats in Paid in Full. The Fat Boys decided to remain in cartoon land and bust a few bubblegum beats. But that’s their market, there’s nothing wrong with ‘Wipeout’ — great funky pop and a heap of fun. 
What’s wrong with Crushin’ is that there is nothing startlingly new happening, in fact some of it sounds a bit dated, like ‘Hell No!’ and ‘Rock Ruling,’ with all the heavy guitar and shouted vocal. Like LL might cut with some real nasty guitar, but the Fat Boys sound like they’re using Twisted Sister. But as I said, that’s their market. 
Good to see yet another warning about Aids, with the Fat Boys promoting the use of condoms on ‘Protect Yourself.' Even better is the promotion of sex in ‘Between the Sex,’ with the boys thinking about “girlies’ booties" and having a “fire in my intestines.” 
Nowhere as good as the previous records, there’s more pop than funk, but still fun for the beach and the barbeque pit. 
Artist: George Michael 
Album: Faith 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: Chad Taylor 
My, we have come a long way. The fandom has become Faith, the Young Gun aged to become a “father figure.” Club Tropicana is no longer the ideal vista for pop carry-ons; instead the new meaningful George has headed for Texas way, thrown in a little skiffle and C&W, tossed in some lyrical self-doubt (’Kissing a Fool’) and even stayed up late to nurse his hangover (‘One More Try’). Oh boy, this must be maturity, right, because we’ve all stopped having fun? Not on your life. 
George Michael is still as young and crafty as ever, which is good news because he is still one of the best songwriters in English pop today. And he is still sticking very tightly to what makes a good pop song, as the whole controversy over ‘I Want Your Sex’ proved. If George wanted to make a stab at maturity, he’d be singing for self-consciously worthy causes; instead he’s just re-working the same boy-meets-girl machinery that’s fuelled pop for years. 
Faith is nothing new, just Wham’s pop ideals in new clothes. After all that bouncing around in leather jackets George has decided to take it easy and stop shaving, but that’s about the only change. The country and western influences are there and, yes, it’s kind of an odd influence for one who made his name making music that was associated with young white Britain (ie: black American soul), but it’s a faint influence — nothing as weird as, say, Elvis Costello’s recent experiments. George has come a long way by doing what English pop stars are famous for, and he’s not about to stop now. Thank God for George Michael’s Faith. Children, hear his word, Thursday through Saturday every night from 10 onwards. 
Artist: Christy Moore 
Album: The Unfinished Revolution 
Record Label: WEA 
Reviewed By: David Perkins
Christy Moore enjoys in Ireland the mana equivalent to that enjoyed by Dylan in the States. This immensely talented musician began as the kingpin in the superb traditional band Planxty, and also released two competent albums for Polydor. Out of Planxty came the Moving Hearts, which emphasised a more rock approach to Irish music. After he left the band Moore produced a series of stunning solo albums. Regrettably all too little of his music has surfaced in New Zealand, with the exception of last year’s excellent Ordinary Man.
Unfinished Revolution showcases Moore at his best aided by sympathetic production from Donal Lunny, his old colleague in Planxty. Combining the best of Irish contemporary music, Moore highlights songs from up and coming Irish musicians such as Shane MacGowan of Pogues fame, Paul Duran, Noel Brazil and others.
‘Biko Drum,’ which opens the album, is a haunting masterpiece and contrasts with the stark landscape of the title track, a kind of Sean O’Casey sentiment put to music, where the innocent woman holds the key to the unfinished revolution, whether it be in Nicaragua or Belfast. ‘Metropolitan Avenue’ echoes the Yardbirds’ ‘Still I’m Sad,’ while Moore’s ‘On the Bridge’ illustrates the futility of religious worship in the context of the more immediate issues such as the abuse of prisoners in Armagh jail. 
Throughout the album Moore combines biting political commentary with the humour of a pub band, while the backing musicians are exemplary, on what ranks as one of the best albums of 1987. An unqualified recommendation for this album. Search it out and then look for copies of Ordinary Man and Ride On. 
Artist: Three Leaning Men 
Album: Fun in the Key of E 
Record Label: Meltdown 
Reviewed By: Ken Stewart 
They’re no meanies, these Leanies, for Fun in the Key of E is a sugar cube in the teapot of life. With smootho production courtesy of Nigel Stone (Netherworlds’ LP) and 3LM being self-confessed Sneakys lovers, we have here an endearing mixture of soft centres. 
Side one chimes along with well thought out pop till the REMish ‘All of These Things’ and anthem-like ‘Look Over There’ sound more threatening. After the quirky jazz-rock of ‘Until We’re Together Again,’ songs on side two are a bit tentative. ‘Masculinity’ doesn’t quite build up to the monster that it should be. Perhaps they could have spiced up the brew somewhat. 
I’ve heard the Leanies are supporting Painters and Dockers on an Orientation tour. Now that will be weird: a silk purse and a sow’s ear. 
Artist: Various 
Album: The Island Story 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell 
The 25th anniversary of Britain’s most successful independent record label also marks founder Chris Blackwell’s surrender of direct artistic control. He recently told the NMEhe was stepping into the background with mixed feelings, but also admitted it was a logical progression for a label which has prided itself on being progressive. It is worth noting that it was one of Blackwell’s bright minions who signed a brash young Irish band named U2. As Blackwell advances gracefully into middle age, he can look back on his achievements with considerable pride. 
From flogging ska singles from the boot of a car in London’s marketplaces in the 60s, Blackwell has built Island into an international stable of artists, the bulk of whom have resisted tempting offers from other labels to stay with a firm which gives them freedom to follow their instincts. Save for his careful moulding of Bob Marley into a musical prophet, Blackwell has tended to adopt a hands-off approach on musical matters. Astute marketing is his forte, and Island discs still stand out in any shop. They all look good and not too many of them sound all bad. 
So, what does Island offer us for its 25th birthday present? “31 classic hits,” quoth the cover. We-e-11, I think that’s maybe stretching it a bit. I’d give it 13, since it’s hard to argue with Millie Small’s ‘My Boy Lollipop,’ Free’s ‘All Right Now,'Traffic’s ‘Paper Sun,’ Bob Marley’s ‘No Woman, No Cry’ or Jethro Tull’s ‘Living in the Past,' par example.
But who decided that Cat Stevens was best represented by ‘Morning Has Broken,’ a cloying piece of quasireligious fluff he didn’t even write? Robert Palmer has made better singles than ‘Addicted to Love,’ the Joe Cocker-Jennifer Warnes dirge ‘Up Where We Belong’ was helped into hit status by a popular movie, and can anyone really remember ‘Kissing With Confidence’ by Will Powers? Maybe he/she’s a major shareholder ... and I think that provides a clue to the selection. Why else would unproven new signings like Amazulu and the Christians get a look-in amongst these “classic hits”? Methinks I hear the dreaded Market Forces, so beloved in the Beehive, calling the shots here.
This theory also helps to explain the absence of Tom Waits, Marianne Faithfull and John Martyn, not to mention that tragic, forgotten genius, Nick Drake. All have contributed significantly to the integrity of the Island stable, but generated comparatively few sales. Sandy Denny, another sad victim, surfaces only as part of Fairport Convention. And didn’t Bryan Ferry write the odd song that might have served him better than ‘Smoke Gets in Your Eyes’? 
A label which has placed so much emphasis on quality should have placed less emphasis on quantity when choosing a compilation representing the best of its catalogue. Hit singles fade away quickly. Island could do itself far greater justice than this, and I’m sure Chris Blackwell knows it. 
Artist: David Eggleton 
Album: Wrap Up 
Record Label: Partisan 
Reviewed By: Ken Stewart 
Roll up, roll up, ringmaster/mad ranter takes us on a tragicomic tirade through our lives and times. Wrap Up is the latest composition from David Eggleton, who must surely be regarded as an expert newscaster come rock poet. His interwoven blend of satire and truth-stranger-than-fiction tales speak for themselves. 
We have here seven burnt offerings from Eggleton, each track a potential celebrity roast or maybe a crack at the Sunday one or some other odd Kiwi custom. 
With each literary piece creating its own feel, the backing musicians used (Major/Mace/Foulkes et al) have competently taken to the task of adding further dimension to the flavour with some clever musical accompaniment. While sometimes an anguished plea (‘Home Sweet Home’), the majority of this record pokes a lot of fun and has more bite than an IBM megaframe. 
It’s a pity the lyrics aren’t printed, but I’ll let David have the final say: “You little beaudy, you small wonder. Good on you New Zealand, we know you had it in ya.” 
Artist: David Hollis 
Album: With Love 
Record Label: Tonal Quality 
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne 
Two hundred hand-painted covers — both sides, and all different. So what’s on the inside? An inspired piece of folk music. Anyone wanting to re-live the magic playing of Hollis in Wellington’s Chez Paris should go and grab a copy before it disappears. If it had the right promotion, this album should beat Malcolm McNeill’s offerings to your mum’s Christmas stocking. 
Excellent experimentation with styles, from rock to folk and classical. And this guy not only writes beautiful music, but the words paint wonderful landscapes of expression and feeling. ‘African Beat’ stands out, as does ‘Nearly Half Broke’ and ‘Still Love is Best.’
Hollis holds his music dear to his heart. The record is digitally produced and is 100 percent acoustic. A beautiful production sound. Well done! 
Artist: The Wild Poppies 
Album: Heroine 
Record Label: Poppie 
Reviewed By: Paul McKessar
Apparently the Wild Poppies have dispersed from their Wellington home to locations around the globe, but not before leaving us with the decent single ‘Stare at the Sun’ and a warm debut album — Church psychedelia without the ice-cold Kilbey edge. And although that approach keeps things relatively lightweight, busier tracks like ‘Colourdrift’ are there to stop any cloying effects developing. 
Side one’s got highlights in the ethereal ‘Walkabout’ and tasteful rocking out finale of ‘Cannon Over a Grey Sky.’ Some songs could’ve benefitted from a bigger guitar sound and maybe ‘Talking to Myself Again’ comes across as a little too precious, but the Wild Poppies have laid down the likes of ‘This Person’ just right, with songs evolving from a heart encompassed within Andrew Young’s acoustic guitar. A nice surprise. A bloody neat record. I like it.
Artist: Various
Album: The Singing Detective
Record Label: BBC 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
If you were as fixated with the TV series as I was, then you'll want this soundtrack on the strength of its sleeve design (Marlow’s paperback cover) and the haunting accordian theme alone. Of course our initial response to all this music during the show was primarily visual and dramatic. Here, divorced from their telecontext, the songs may continue to evoke Potter’s images but they also stand or fall alone. Hence, while ‘Dem Bones' cannot fully escape from that hilarious hospital chorus-line sequence, it also sounds decidedly tepid, quite inferior to a version I’ve occasionally heard elsewhere.
In Potter’s earlier series Pennies From Heaven the music was drawn from the one period and sound: 1930s English dance orchestras. Consequently the two soundtrack albums had a delightfully kitsch consistency. The Singing Detective however, relied on wireless memories embracing two decades and two continents. The result is that while much of the material — predominantly American — retains an intrinsic authenticity, other pieces — usually English — sound embarrassingly dated. Tracks by the Duke Ellington Band, Ella Fitzgerald, the Mills Brothers, even Bing Crosby and the Andrews Sisters, have a wonderful charm that make the album a treasure to own. They also throw into sharp contrast the pallid versions of such classics as ‘Blues in the Night,’ ‘I Get Along Without You Very Well’ and ‘Lili Marlene.’ And even though we do get Vera Lynn singing ‘We’ll Meet Again,’ it’s not the version everybody knows.
The important point however, is that the delights decidedly outnumber the disappointments. And at a generous 20 tracks, that gives you a lot to choose from. Am I right or am I right! 
Artist: Crawbilly Creeps 
Album: Crawbilly Creeps 
Record Label: Lasso/Jayrem
Reviewed By: Tim Byrne
Wellington continues its fascination with country/rockabilly and it’s only five years behind Auckland. Bring on the white steeds, Tonto! Crawbilly Creeps are Z Snook, Bill Van Wettering and Don Peddle. The three of them are having such a fine time in making this record that on occasions one suspects them of playing only to themselves.
Owing a lot to the likes of Link Wray, the Creeps play a lively bunch of songs which explore familiar themes to those lost in the Texan landscape — rodeos, square dances, the man who keeps the law. Z can certainly sing, there is no doubting that. But sometimes fingers seem to lose their place as guitars flail country licks in a roundup-or-bust approach to a few of the songs on this here record. 
‘Rodeo in the Sky’ makes the whole album worthwhile, with its wanderlust death in the desert. Great stuff. But vocal gymnastics take over where the guitars leave off, to leap and vault about on covers such as ‘Nervous Breakdown.’ One wonders should I stay, or play it loud and listen from the next room? 
Artist: Mick Jagger 
Album: Primitive Cool 
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: MK
Ol’ silicon lips is back, stretching his mannered yowl around a new batch of crushingly average rock songs and grooves. Everyone involved here is falling over themselves trying to make the thing sound exciting, but to little or no avail. It’s not a bad record as such, it’sjustnotbad. Hiring muff-face from the Eurythmics doesn’t help much either; putting his stamp of stolid competence on half the tracks only serves to highlight the lack of good songs and imagination. What a shame Def Jam turned him down. I had to put Get Your Ya Yas Out! on to revive my spirit. 
Artist: Ry Cooder 
Album: Get Rhythm
Record Label: Warners 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Cooder’s best work for ’87 must surely be his biting guitar support on John Hiatt’s Bring the Family. For Get Rhythm he makes his guitar get dirtier to the extent that, although there’s grit galore, the edge is somewhat bluntened. Otherwise the performances are powerful enough but the material is all from territory he’s visited many times before. If you’ve heard his mean-mouthed rocking and mournful borderline ballads on albums going back through Blue City, Alamo Bay, even to 1981’s The Slide Area, then Get Rhythm will hold few surprises. If you haven’t, then Cooder sure as heck does it as well as any. 
Artist: Sweet Harmony 
Album: Let Yourself Go 
Record Label: Emmatruck
Reviewed By: CB 
Sweet Harmony are Hattie St John, Olivia Stephens and Maxine Naden, who can often be seen performing a variety of originals and covers around Auckland. Let Yourself Go is a lot more subtle than their live show, but leans heavily on standards that could have been a bit more daring in their selection: ‘Midnight Hour,’ ‘Do Right Woman,’ ‘Wonderful Tonight’ and Springsteen’s ‘Fever’ (on which Hattie is particularly fluid). The key to the trio is their strong harmonies, which can often go in delightfully surprising places; they keep the accompaniment simple and delicate, with the rhythms concentrating on the offbeat. Two of the most captivating are the originals ‘Let Yourself Go’ and ‘Time For Change,’ pleasant light reggae. But overall it's easy listening territory: the LP could do with more variation, and more risks. 
Artist: Kathy Mattea 
Album: Walk the Way the Wind Blows 
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: BS
This is the third album from a woman who used to be a tour guide at Nashville’s Country Hall of Fame. The dumb cover makes you think it’s going to be a praise-the-Lord record, but the good news is, Mattea has a great voice. The songs, by such people as Rodney Crowell, Wendy Waldman, Elton John and Roger Cook, are clear and strong. There is but one original, about leaving the ol’ home state, but I guess she is a singer and not a writer. There’s even a Count Basie tune. However I am making the disc sound more of a hotchpotch than it is. Overall there is a sympathetic production, giving a nice, easy, unified feel. If this girl is merely a rising star in the US, Patsy Riggir would be well advised to stay at home in New Zealand. 
Artist: Volcanoes 
Album: Into the Psyche
Record Label: Hybrid
Reviewed By: PM
If I called this the silliest record of the year, maybe there’s someone out there who’ll appreciate it. Nods to Iggy and to the Cramps, clean-as-a-whistle production from Roman Jugg (bignose of the Damned), lyrics like “I’m a man in trouble, I’m a man in pain I I’ve got a great big devil hanging over my brain,” and something trying to pass itself off as a ‘Poem,’ (“the festering flush of the world’s face recoils at the sight of its own fractured reflection”); the silliest record of the year.
Get the picture?