Artist: OASIS 
Album: Be Here Now
Record Label: Creation
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Now the circle is complete. When I first heard Oasis they were but the learners. Now they are the masters of one of the most important rock ‘n’ roll sounds to emerge Out of the 1990s. 
Be Here Now doesn’t need to skite or pander to the few non-believers who still don’t get it. This is the culmination of everything they said they were capable of. And forget all the easy Beatles comparisons, even when ‘All Around the World’ is championed as their ‘Let it Be’. And ignore the mentions of the Stones when the American courtship of the title track and ‘Fade In Out’ are discussed.
This album is pure epic Oasis, with enough attitude and Hooj singalongs to level a salivating nation of millions. *D’ya*Know What I Mean’ gave the real fans a terrace anthem. ‘Stand By Me’ will be a ‘Wonderwall’, though it’s so much more in terms of soul squeezing glory with all these strings and harmonies and genius guitar riffery. The hairs on the back of your neck were invented for this song. 
Noel has delivered 11 of the biggest, rockiest, emotionally depth-charged songs we’ve heard from him. And Liam’s voice is in amazing form, with the disengaged sneer now becoming only one of the many vocal personas he has in his arsenal. 
They’ll create an absolute kicker like ‘My Big Mouth', which makes your heart race with every chorus, and be able to change gear and create the equally credible beauty of ‘Don’t Go Away’, a heartfelt ballad that shows a face we hardly get to see; vulnerability. 
Be Here Now is a classic album of absolute mastery. It should be put on board every spaceship to show aliens what earth is capable of.
Artist: BIKE 
Album: Take In The Sun
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Bike’s debut album follows on from the preceding singles in the musical continuity stakes. There is no audible change in the formula, 60s guitar pop/rock, chiming jangle with lush honey toned vocals. Nope, no change there. The opening rock bite of Take In The Sun gets the theme of the album off to a solid start, matching the sunny sentiment of the deck chaired cover, elsewhere ‘Sunrise’ backs it up with it’s lackadaisical vernal pop. The lackadaisical sensations that permeate Take In The Sun work best over the (very) occasional filler track. The Byrds atmospheric pop of ‘Welcome to My World’ complete with back tracked guitar (cliche, yet still profitable), or the countrified ‘lnside’ are the best examples of Andrew Brough’s reflective melancholy powers in full bloom. Elsewhere the single tracks, ‘Circus Kids’, ‘Old And Blue’, and ‘Save My Life’, round out an album that’s 72% successful, and will with its release this month be a decent companion piece to the Stereo Bus for seasonal pop thrills. Take In The Sun, and soak in its rays. 
Artist: ECHO AND THE BUNNYMEN 
Album: Ballyhoo: The Best Of 
Record Label: Korova
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Hardly a coincidence, surely, that this Best Of just pre-dates the Bunnymen’s new album Evergreen, in what must be an orchestrated attempt at restoring McCulloch and co. to the forefront of British pop. 
The 80s have long since been convicted of being crap, but in 1980 Liverpool’s Bunnymen, Teardrop Explodes, and Wah! Heat shared enough heady, doom-laden pseudointellectual mysticism to be called a movement. The Bunnymen’s first album, Crocodiles, defined their dark, psychedelic rock ‘n’ roll and the excellent Ballyhoo appropriately contains the great drug anthem, ‘Villiers Terrace’, and the revolutionary zeal of ‘All That Jazz’, as fitting representatives from that timeless debut. 
From there it was into the existential epic sweep of Heaven Up Here and the likes of ‘Over The Wall’, and then into the metaphorical depths of Ocean Rain, and McCulloch kissing tortoise shells on the otherwise memorable ‘Seven Seas’. Their last album proper, Echo and the Bunnymen, didn’t have the daring and grandeur of their classic period, but songs like ‘Lips Like Sugar’ still showed remnants of past glory. The almost narcissistic self-belief of McCulloch has already paved the way for the band’s current regeneration, but they’re unlikely to re-create the majesty of their hey-day that’s so majestically captured by Ballyhoo. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: Spawn: The Album
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Like all the best ideas, the concept behind this is so simple — pair up some big names from the rock and dance worlds for the movie soundtrack of the bestselling comic Spawn, see what chemistry is generated, and hope for some monstrous progeny. On the whole, it’s worked — though nothing here redefines either genre, and some collaborations don’t seem to need half the pairing. Still, the highs are highs. Slayer and Atari Teenage Riot work each other into a truly inspired digital speed frenzy that’s more than the sum of it’s contributor’s parts; Butthole Surfers and Moby attempt to weird each other out with floaty hallucinogenics; while Filter and the Crystal Method come off like Perry Farrell fronting Nine Inch Nails on the naggingly poppy track, ‘(Can’t You) Trip Like I Do’. Orbital and Kirk Hammett beef up the former’s ‘Satan’ (excellent!), but DJ Spooky’s addition of bass and beats to an old Metallica song is a little pointless. Marilyn Manson and Sneaker Pimps just ooze sleaziness together, switching roles halfway through; and Rage Against The Machine’s Tom Morello joins Prodigy’s ‘One Man Army’ and comes off a 2nd Lieutenant. Some don’t fare too well at all — particularly Rollins, who gets lost in Goldie’s jungle — but for the most part, this is a success that should last the distance. 
Artist: ATARI TEENAGE RIOT 
Album: The Future Of War
Record Label: Digital Hardcore
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Berlin born and London based digital noise terrorists Atari Teenage Riot return with their second manifesto of hardcore hate. Lead rioter Alec Empire is staying true to his name, and forging an empire of his own, continually distancing himself from all things ‘techno’, and instead striving to deconstruct digital blandness. Complacency is not a word to be found in ATR’s vocab, they want you to get off your arse and riot against racism, fascism, bigotry, boredom, and an increasingly consumerist society. The irony is they recognise that with time they may become part of the consumerism they despise. Musically ATR take the original substance of German hardcore punk rock — violent stabbing vocals (‘Fuck the state! We are the resistance!!!!!’) and distorted, bleeding guitars, and set it to blitzkrieg digital beats and manga samples. As accessible as a breadknife scrapping over a blackboard. ATR want to repulse you or march arm in arm with you to destroy the ‘system’. If you’re looking to join in, watch your step cause slamming to this slab of chaos, it’s likely you’ll break your neck, or at least have a solid case for an ACC whiplash claim. 
Artist: PANTERA 
Album: Official Live 101 Proof 
Record Label: East West
Reviewed By: Troy Ferguson
Pantera are possibly the last of metal’s old(ish) school hard men; staunchly uninterested in sulky stories of childhood woes, self-analysis, or incorporating too much electronic technology into their straight-ahead heaviness. In fact, they don’t care for much beyond “kickin’ fuckin’ ass” and “going crazy”, so of course, the live situation is the ideal platform for them. Therefore Official Live ought to present Pantera in as realistic a light as possible. 
Recorded on Pantera’s Tourkill 9697 across the USA, the set list is gleaned from all four studio albums — just the crowd-pleasers of course, and sounds exactly like what you expect if you have ever seen (or even heard) them. The real enticement is the two new studio tracks tacked on the end, of which ‘I Can’t Hide’ is far grittier and punked out than the usual Pantera fare. A change of direction looming? Probably not — they’ll be playing the same high- tension, maximum-aggres-sion rock fury until the apocalypse, at least. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: 15 Years In An Open Boat 
Record Label: On-U-Sound
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
You wonder whether Adrian Sherwood knew where it would all end up when he started up his record label On-U-Sound 17 years ago. For all intents and purposes, On-U is the dub label. Serious dub-fans may dispute this, pointing elsewhere to labels such as Blood And Fire, Ariwa, etc, but in terms of consistently taking dub to the masses, no one has done it like Sherwood. Keith le Blanc, African Head Charge, Lee Perry, Prince Far I, Singers & Players, Creation Rebel, Tackhead, are just some of the enormous dub names who have recorded and released music through this label over the years. 
If this new compilation was to do the label justice, it would probably need to be an eight-album boxed set or something equally monstrous. Even so, the two discs of On-U tracks which actually make up the release do pretty well in chronicling the history of the label. 
Beginning with Prince Far I’s 1982 vitriolic rant ‘Virgin’ (he wasn’t too happy with his recording contract!), the first disc includes bona-fide classics from Mark Stewart and Mafia (‘Jerusalem’), Bim Sherman (‘Slummy Ghetto’), Dub Syndicate (‘Night Train’) as well as some rarer cuts from Akabu and Congo Ashanti Roy. The first disc ends not with dub but industrial — Tackhead’s response to the military build-up in Britain in the mid-80s, ‘What’s My Mission Now’.
Disc two also has its share of classics, not the least Andy Fairley’s ‘Jack the Biscuit’, which must surely be one of On-U’s most bizarre releases ever. Although the disc finishes with relatively recent outputs from the likes of Little Axe, 2 Bad Card and Audio Active, most of the material is actually taken from the 80s. A sign that On-U’s best days are behind it? Perhaps, but what mighty fine days they were. 
Artist: BOO YAA TRIBE 
Album: Angry Samoans
Record Label: Music For Nations
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
BOO Yaa have dabbled in rock/rap crossover since their late 80s debut, on which they were ‘Pickin’ Up Metal’; and their Faith No More collaboration, ‘Another Body Murdered’, was one of the highlights of the Judgement Night soundtrack 
So to expect big things from a full crossover album, Angry Samoans, is not unreasonable; and it’s a pity that the hard rock backing sounds on this album have not grown in stature relative to the physical size of the 800 Yaa boys. The guitar ‘licks’ are even more ham-fisted and dated than Body Count (and without the knowing humour), and are mixed so low as to be totally squashed by the classic BOO Yaa confrontational vocal approach — in your face, tough, and scary. 
At least they don’t disappoint on that front, even if the rap hasn’t evolved much beyond the staunch hoodlum styles they’ve always circled around. With a better backing band, it’d be way more relevant.
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: Punked If I Know: A Kiwi Punk Compilation 
Record Label: Onefoot
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
This album is the result of Onefoot’s appeal to NZ punk bands.to send their stuff for a compilation of local music. With bands from as far afield as Invercargill and Whangarei, it’s a varied' beast, but one that’s ultimately encouraging.
Punked kicks off with the Kapiti Coast’s Monkey Puzzle and their noisy ‘No More Talk’. Wellington’s other offering, Brubeck, are one of the albums' highlights, with. ‘Letterbomb’' and ‘Specimen’. Other good points include Hasting’s Big Blue . Blanket with ‘Barkhead’, Invercargill’s Hounds Of Zaroff with ‘Victim’, and from Nelson, Blair Jones, whose ‘Bollocks’-sums up that towns often boring, middle class attitudes.- Often the recording quality is not the best, but that’s a minor quibble, as Punked If I Know is a fine sampler of the many punkish offerings from across this land. As the cover says: ‘Start a zine. Play in a band. Put on a show. Do something.’ . 
Artist: JORDAN REYNE 
Album: Birds Of Prey
Record Label: Lost
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
Birds Of Prey opens with ‘Sister Falling’, desolate and sparse, sending a chill of unspecified sadness through the listener. More than almost any other singer/songwriter I’ve heard recently, Jordan Reyne has taken back the art in its most evocative form; that is taking private thought, feelings and journeys and while keeping them comfortably obscure, manages to create something out of them which has the potential touch anyone. It’s the ultimate aim of any songwriter, unfortunately few have the ability to capture it.
Birds of Prey is a wonderful album without being one that’s easily listened to. ‘Tortured’ was the word that ran. through my notes as I listened, and with lines such as, ‘we always wonder why good things die/we cry them our poison and drink ourselves dry/and cut flowers always die’ — see what I mean. But since when did everything have to be light ‘n’ fluffy an’ a box of teenage sweethearts? Life ain’t like that. 
This album will tear you apart and it may be the best thing you buy all year.
Artist: SEPULTURA 
Album: Blood-Rooted
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
Covering the Chaos AD and Roots periods, this compilation includes bsides; cover versions; and live performances; and it’s not a motley collection • of out-takes and substandard rejections either.
The seven 1994 live tracks are worthwhile enough, but the real paydirt is elsewhere. Demo versions of ’Dusted’ and ‘Roots Bloody Roots', show the sparks of the barely-contained fire that swept through their masterpiece, Roots.; and Mike Patton takes lead vocals on the haunted and psychotic ‘Mine’, then steps up again with Cavalera and Korn’s Jonathan Davis on a remixed ‘Lookaway’. The covers are redefined, Sepulture style — not a real stretch in the case of the Dead Kennedys or Celtic Frost, but the magnificent version of the Bob Marley-pop-ularised anthem.‘War’, is invested with such emotional power that it speaks across musical barriers in precisely the way that Marley’s version did. 
Blood-Rooted is a good companion piece to Sepulture’s last two albums, and a fine epitaph for a great band. 
Artist: FAITHLESS 
Album: Reverence
Record Label: Cheeky
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
In days gone by this record may have been labelled a concept album. But before you think, ‘gawd, it’s Pink Floyd revisited’, and skip to the next review, hear this. Faithless have come up with a record so ambitious in its genre-spanning cockiness, that if they didn’t pull it off you’d be laughing out loud at how dodgy it all is. But yes, they do pull it off, and in the process have created one of the most interesting records of the year. 
The Faithless trump card is their ability to continually surprise. As each of the album’s 10 songs arrive, build and finally, explode, you’re left'wondering what the hell is going on. Is Bobby Gillespie in there somewhere? ‘Don’t Leave’ is so like Primal Scream in bal-lad-mode it’s spooky. As for ‘Angeline’, has someone invited Tom Waites to the party. Then there’s the opera. Opera? What on earth is opera doing on an electronic album? Dunno, but that’s what you get with the album’s final track, ‘Drifting Away’. Even the first single, the verging-on-cheesy synth anthem, ‘lnsomnia’, seems to make sense within the confines of Reverence.
More surprises are contained within the remix disc which accompanies ‘bonus editions’ of the album. All but one of the album tracks are given the treatment by various DJ types, with the best of the bunch being the mixes of ‘Reverence’ and ‘Salva Mea’.
Artist: FIGURE 60 
Album: Land Sharks 
Record Label: Earwig
Artist: ALPHA PLAN
Album: City Of Bastards
Record Label: Earwig
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Two releases from the confines of a new studio/label located on Auckland’s North Shore, but sounding very Grey Lynn.
From bedroom beginnings, Figure 60 went on to become one of the most chameleonic acts to crawl from (and go back to) the Auckland underbelly. Their first cassette only release Bludger emphasised the songwriting ability of the band — as ‘Rain is Poison’ demonstrated fully — then Fig. 60 delved more into free form arrangements, culminating in dropping the bass player, playing the 1996 Big Day Out, and dissolving. Prolific, Figure 60 left a legacy behind on vinyl, cassette and now this ‘retrospective’ album. Land Sharks contains the full spectrum of random and song periods. This is worth investigating. 
Alpha Plan by comparison have a distinct manifesto of being visible, and have called their album City Of Bastards. Saying something about Auckland? Apparently. It could however also be a metaphor for the corporate nature of a city prostituting itself for worldly fortune with a few illegitimate sons and daughters the inevitable outcome. Whatever, it references the dark and muscular nature of the noise on the recordings, sprinkled with a healthy dose of. angst and rage. Student radio fodder ‘Revolution’ comes on abrasively, with it’s anthemic ‘move forward!’ chorus and chugging Bailter-ish noise. Other references that come to mind, often within the same song, are JPSE, This Kind Of Punishment, and on the title track, ‘Soul Catcher’-era Chooks and Husker- Du!?! From the schizophrenic stuttering pop and rolling noise of ‘The Modern Dance’,, to the breakneck instrumental ‘Personality & Earning Potential’, Alpha Plan prove that musically they have a Beta to fall back on. Plan on visiting their city soon to admire the sonic architecture.
Artist: FLOODGATE 
Album: Penalty
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Kyle Thomas, vocalist and guitarist for Floodgate, was once a member of Roadrunner thrash act Exhorder, an experience that limited his songwriting. Floodgate is the result of his dissatisfaction, and it’s definitely not limited to balls-to-the-wall riffing and schlock tactics. With canyon-deep grooves and Thomas’ James. Hetfield-like vocals, Penalty exhibits strong, 90s metal songwriting, with a pleasant lack of pretension. This represents the changing face of a somewhat stale genre, losing the bullshit that saw ‘heavy metal’ effectively shoot itself in the head. On songs like ‘Before the Line Divides’ and ‘Till My Soil’, Floodgate show both a maturity and power that moronic metal heads could, and should, learn a lesson from. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: The Inner Flame
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
The only name you’re likely to be unfamiliar with on this album is that of the man who wrote or co-wrote all its music and most of its lyrics, and will benefit from its sales, Rainer Ptacek. He’s described as a ‘cult’ blues guitarist, which was enough to bring some fans from very high places, but didn’t pay the bills when a tumour, “the size of a fist”, was discovered in his brain last year. What better time, then, for a tribute album which delivers a portion of its proceeds to he who inspired it.
The mood is uniformly laidback, cooked up by a diverse range of contributors. Robert Plant and Jimmy Page lend a dubby edge to ‘Rude World’; former Sweet Relief beneficiaries Victoria Williams (with Mark Olson) and Vic Chestnutt (with Tina Chestnutt) are meditative and feisty by turns, with the former’s ‘Something’s Gotta Be Done’, and the latter’s ‘Where’s The At?’. The pots and pans come out for PJ Harvey, John Parish and Eric Drew Feldman’s ‘Losin’ Ground’, making them, the main contenders for disturbers of the peace; but they’re beaten in the sinister stakes by LK’s, ‘I’m a Sinner’.
I get the feeling none of the above will mean much to many of you, so my recommendation for a track to try has gonna be predictable and point towards Evan Dando’s lovely, 'Rudy With a Flashlight’. That should put your foot in the circle, and is as good an invitation as any to the campfire sounds that surround it. 
Artist: JOHN P STROHM AND THE HELLO STRANGERS 
Album: Caledonia 
Record Label: Cortex
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Alternative’s fascination with ‘roots’ music is a fascinating and overlooked area of study — everyone from Nirvana to Primal Scream have done their spot of apologia/tribute. Even the Eagles nowadays can be seen as genuine antecedents. Of course the spectre of Gram Parsons hangs over this like designer fog and John P Strohm and company’s brand of country-tinged pop is as pleasant and inconsequential as any. If the last Lemonheads record (Strohm remains an on and off member) was under-rated, Caledonia is sure to be overpraised, (a) because it does everything with taste and decorum, and (b) it possesses a knowing and exactitude which suggests the writing of the press release pre album, and (c) it suggests more J.P. Stohm’s fine album collection and hard work, rather than any real inspiration. With songs as good as ‘Slipaway’, ‘Jennifer and Jean’, and ‘Love Theme’, that’s sometimes enough, but too often on Caledonia, said songs remain just ciphers — pointers in a private and dubious mythology — and that’s not even mentioning Strohm's role askid cowboy cover star! I guess that’s what happens when you raid your folks stuff. Too cute by half. 
Artist: CANIS 
Album: A Good Solid Flesh Crime
Record Label: Ass
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Auckland five piece Canis spew forth a vicious noise that has it’s roots both in bands like Spud and the more suburban strains of metal and hardcore. With dual guitars that rock hard or simply make noise, an adaptable rhythm section, and Paul Blanchard’s cathartic wail, it’s mostly dark and scary.
Recorded between York Street and the Lab with Chris Van der Geer, the sound brings out every nuance of what is essentially a captivatingly ugly sound. ‘Blackslider' is a dirge-like affair, not unlike Solid Gold Hell, grinding and subduing, whereas ‘Cold Hard Sell’ (also on the 21st Century Animal compilation) is more straightforward and rock-like. Lyrically, Canis achieve a lot more than many bands in terms of intelligence and insight, with plenty of black humour (at least I hope it’s humour). Even the cover deserves praise. 
Overall, A Good Solid Flesh Crime is one of the best albums of dark, greasy rock from New Zealand, in recent memory. 
Artist: SMOG 
Album: Red Apple Falls
Record Label: Drag City
Artist: NEUTRAL MILK HOTEL
Album: On Avery Island 
Record Label: Merge
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
A long time on the scene, Bill ‘Smog’ Callahan is back again with a new album. and an acoustically beautiful number it is, coming over in most places in a Palace/Will Oldham Vs. Sebadoh kinda way. ‘Blood Red Bird’, for instance gets the acoustic spacious treatment that plays on the heartstrings, and juxtaposes that with an optimistic view of solitude, while the chorus is so lush it’s downright delicious. Each song is a lyrical story in itself, accompanied by an ambient (non digital) soundtrack,, each song linked to the others by the rawness of the sentiments expressed. Whether you’re being instructed to get a life of your own in ‘lnspiration’, or having made the break from a smothering past in ‘Finer Days’, Smog create fables for a modern age.
When is a Tall Dwarfs album not a Tall Dwarfs album? When its Neutral Milk Hotel’s On Avery Island. Not exactly, but there is more than a passing nod to Messrs CK and AB — ‘Someone Is Waiting’ gives the drowning-man-wav-ing signal to the Dwarfs big time. On its own merits, On Avery Island is a 90% winner, with trombones, other non-rock instrumentation, distortion-as-a-life-force, and a permeating weirdness throughout. I say a 90% winner because there’s some stuff in here that sounds like that doofus from Radiohead whining ail over it, but any album that can manage better than 75% is still well ahead of the pack. And I’ll lay odds on Neutral Milk Hotel retaining at least their current form. 
Artist: NAPALM DEATH 
Album: Inside The Torn Apart
Record Label: Earache
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
A decade ago, Napalm Death operated on the outer reaches of extreme. Some songs lasted two seconds in their entirety, others were so slow that they seemed to last a painful eternity. The band’s revolving door policy ensured a flow of ideas and perspectives; but instead of being applauded for extraordinary vision and innovation within a narrowly-confined genre, they were treated as a joke by everyone who was not either John Peel or a card-carrying metalhead.
Times have changed. Napalm Death these days sound rather ordinary — playing it straighter, more competently, and, ultimately, less challengingly. Ignoring all that, Inside The Torn Apart is good listening, and better than 99% of any other metal bands you care to mention. There’s a particular stoic maturity evident now — rhythmic grooves hinted at on 1995’s Diatribes are more pronounced, anger has given way to pragmatism, and the album’s listenable production avoids cliche wherever possible. Napalm Death have drifted centrewards from their previous boundarybending position, yet still manage to maintain a safe distance from heavy rock convention and corporate trends. 
Artist: KENICKIE 
Album: At The Club
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
‘Yeah. Yeah, yeah,, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.’ So goes the chorus to the first song on Kenickie’s debut album, At The Club. Like one or two (thousand) other bunches of Brit musicians, the threegirl, one-boy Kenickie are young (b. 1978), free, and ready to rock. They may not have the cleverest choruses in the world but, hey, they’ve got the attitude, the looks, and a reasonable ability to put together a noisy melody or two.
Kenickie have been causing quite a stir in the UK with their raucous concerts and a string of EPs, and this album brings together a lot of that material. There are plenty of hooks and I don’t doubt that Kenickie can put on a great live show but (and here’s the bad news) there’s something rather disposable about this record. . They’ve got a sound which seems to have been covered a few billion times before, and bands like Sleeper, Elastica, and more recently Linoleum, do it a lot better. Still, there are some good moments when Kenickie choose to mix things up a little, especially on the very robot-like ‘Robot Song’. 
Artist: SMOKE CITY 
Album: Flying Away
Record Label: Zomba
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
This is the band who recorded ‘Underwater Love'; ya know, the Levis ad where 14 year old mermaids try to rob Johnny Fisher of his new strides. Normally I would have been a wanker about the whole thing, and said something like, ‘Blah. What sort of sell-out tie-in are you trying to pull on innocent kids?’ I guess it still is — but it’s actually a pretty good record. Heavy with Latin rhythms, with lead singer Nina Miranda being more of the Astrud Gilberto school, than that of namesake Carman.
While not being an album to hang on its every lyric for hidden depth and meaning, it does hold the attention, with songs placed just. so, to catch you before you drift away’ Like the strident yet easy ballad ‘Mr Gorgeous (and Miss Curvaceous)’, that bounces around on an ocean of rocking acoustic guitars. Likewise, the Joni Mitchell-ish 'Jamie Pan’ which proves a welcome relief from the, not unpleasant but relentless, backing rhythm.
Artist: MISSION OF BURMA 
Album: signals, calls and marches 
Album: Vs. 
Album: The Horrible Truth About Burma 
Record Label: Rykodisc
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
These three albums are the complete recorded history of Mission Of Burma, whose early 80s post-no wave art-rock marked the transitional period of ‘Underground Rock’ (meaning Germs etc), to ‘Underground Rock’ (meaning REM etc). Their approach also bridged the gap between experimental and straight rock ‘n’ roll, in the same way the Stooges and the Velvets had a decade earlier. 
signals, calls and marches, from 1981, containing the classics, ‘That’s When I Reach For My Revolver’, and ‘This Is Not A Photograph’, is nervy, naked and urgent. Originally released as an EP, it’s joined here by the equally stark, ‘Academy Fight Song’ single. With IZs., Burma really tapped the creative vein. Along with many evocative instrumentals and strangely percussive tapescapes, the songs here are more deeply textured, yet retain a dangerous edginess. The live album, The Horrible Truth..., recorded on their final USA tour testifies to the furious maturity of the band. With all new songs, and a great cover of the Stooges ‘1970’, it was a phenomenal farewell. Hopefully, the re-release of these seminal albums will propel Mission Of Burma out of obscurity and into their rightful place in rock history. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: Dollar Mixture
Record Label: Wrong
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
The year of the compilation, as a friend recently stated, continues. New label Wrong Records go some way to fill the void in pop records that used to typify the early Nun and late Failsafe releases, with the emphasis on songs, not on market share or product. 
There’s an obvious affinity and sense of community on Dollar Mixture, although it spans the nation geographically. From the rocking feedback of Auckland’s Lozenge, to the swirling organ driven sounds of Christchurch’s Hawaii Five-O, the taut 12th/16th century architectural stylings of Alpha Plan (originally) of Dunedin, or the wistfully rolling jangle of Wellington’s Sugarbug, the geography analogy parallels the domains of the pop realm — there’s a lot of horizons to explore. Other goodies for your aural consumption include the hummable Bird Nest Roy vocal nuances of Cabbage Bomber’s ‘I Done Stuff, the sub-Crazy Horse era Neil Young-driving pop that is Caneslide, and long time local mantle dweller Richard James and his Letter 5 outfit, who offer ‘Spaghetti Scar’.
Like every dollar mixture pre-bagged by.your friendly dairy owner,' this one includes the odd aniseed ball that may not be to your liking, but they number only a few out of an otherwise large tasty bag. Take a dip. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: Big Night Soundtrack
Record Label: Take One
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Reviewed By: It’s the perfect equation: a film about food and family with a soundtrack tai-lor-made for cooking, dining, and making babies to. It’s the kind of music you hear when there isn’t any playing, and a liberal smattering of Louis Priman says all the things you should be hearing or saying, if dinner is to last all night. Claudio Villa’s contributions should have a rush on Italian linguaphone sets at your local library, and it’s enough to make you wonder if Madonna really was wearing the gospel on her breast with that, 'ltalians Do It Better’ t-shirt she made famous all those years ago. If this album doesn’t work wonders on your sauce and sassy, you probably care less than you should to deserve it in the first place. 
Artist: CANDIRIA 
Album: Beyond Reasonable Doubt 
Record Label: Too Damn Hype
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
New Yorkers Candida impressed immensely with their last album, Surrealistic Madness, a melange of crazy syncopation and the juxtaposition of such divergent elements as hardcore, avant garde jazz, hip hop, and free noise. What you might imagine from that, and what you get, are quite different. It all melds together almost flawlessly; at one moment a full-on riff fest, the next a flavoursome jazz progression. It’s not really jazz-metal, so maybe it’s progressive-hardcore? Who cares, as it’s bound to be one of the wickedest genre-crossing experiences you’ll ever hear. Listen with an open mind, listen good, and listen now.