Artist: BAILTER SPACE 
Album: Capsul 
Record Label: Flying Nun. 
Reviewed By: JUSTIN REDDING
Album number six for Bailter Space, and if you don’t like them by now you . probably won’t ever. This is a guitar band who know how they want to sound, and for them to put out a radically different album at this point would probably involve abandoning their instruments of choice in favour of the kazoo.
The overall sound of Capsul does flow on from Wammo, the band’s final release on Matador, but there are changes as one would expect. Alister Parker’s vocals now sound like they’re rushing to escape a Manhattan traffic jam, and what is this strangely familiar frantic riff repetition — where have I heard it before? Ahhhhh, that’s right — the Gordons — hah! Could it be after roughly 17 years the sound made by these three expatriates is coming full circle? It may be impossible for even them to say, but the raw energy in tracks like ‘Velo’ definitely harks back to one of this country’s greatest ever rock bands. 
One tool the Gordons never had was the rich man’s tape recorder, the digital sampler. As with other albums Bailter Space utilise this technology well, but never to such great effect as on ‘Argonaut’, Capsul’s standout track. This is a voiceless cloud being carried between planets on a solar wind. Anyone who doesn’t rate it as a uniquely beautiful jewel has no soul, and can answer to the dangerous half of RlU’s sales team, who even went as far as threatening my physical wellbeing if this review wasn’t complimentary (“I know where you work, boy.”).
Artist: FOO FIGHTERS 
Album: The Colour and the Shape
Record Label: Roswell
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Wow! I just caught Foo Fighters on Letterman, so you’ll have to forgive me for having come over all queer. I just love the way Dave Grohl can work himself into such an unhinged state of .growly abandon (as he did when performing The Colour and the Shape's single, ‘Monkeywrench’, on this show), then manage to slip the word ‘dear’ into ‘Up in Arms’ (one cool thirteenth of this album) like it’s as natural a sound for him to make as breathing. 
The latter song provides a good example of why the ‘punker than thou’ stuff people keep pinning to the collective Foo Fighters’ mantle is getting rather irrelevent these days. It starts off with a gentle ballad-style working of itself, clearly revealing its true intentions before kicking out the jams. And that’s but one of many such beauty-and-the-beast moments to behold here — a schizoid specialty producer Gil Norton brings much experience at presenting the likes of to classic effect from the past. Take the space guitar bust-out on my personal favourite, ‘Hey, Johnny Park!', for starters. It makes my mouth go all funny every time I hear it — sorta like if you’ve ever learned how to make really good rocket-ship noises. Then there are the vocal pitch switches that move the insanely exhilirating ‘New Way Home’ through its paces.
Will I get a smack on the hand if I don’t mention who ‘My Hero’ is about? I mean, all of these songs must be about someone or something that means something to their writer(s); and I think we’re well past the time when Grohl gets brought into context as ‘that guy who made a cool demo tape after Kurt Cobain finished off himself and Nirvana’. For starters, Dave Grohl is the front man for a lot of people’s favourite band of the moment — and that band just made what I know is gonna be one of the Top 5 albums of 1997. 
Artist: BEN HARPER 
Album: The Will to Live 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Recent live shows have strengthened Harper’s, already considerable, reputation here. This, his third album, is another confident, funky and often surprisingly fragile take on love, life and politics as seen through the eyes of a guy who — like the old-timers — sits down to play. 
Harper’s beloved Weisenberg lap guitar is evident here, but at times so are increasingly harsher, rockier sounds (check the Led Zep riff which underpins ‘Faded’). Marley and Gil Scott Heron remain obvious influences, although the lovely ‘Ashes’ suggests nothing so much as the gentle sounds of rural country blues Band style. Harper’s almost whispered, soulful vocals are especially fine on these slower tracks — ‘Widow of a Living Man’ is terrifically moving, while ‘Mama’s Trippin” is a topical update of Sly’s drug-funk featuring some killer sax. 
In fact Will to Live is hard to fault. Sure, Harper hasn’t the subtlety of Marley, say, lyrically, but albums as honest and strong as this are rare indeed and on occasion — ‘I Shall Not Walk Alone’, ‘Ashes’, and ‘Widow’ — Harper approaches a genius all his own. 
Artist: LOVES UGLY CHILDREN
Album: Showered in Gold
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
Album number two for Loves Ugly Children sees the three-piece bring a bit of swamp-rock to their punk-rock. Although there are a few classic LUC quick-fix punk songs in here, they’re almost outnumbered by sleazy, gut-ter-dwelling rock tunes. Having King Sleaze Mathew Heine (Solid Gold Hell) producing could partly explain it, but even without Heine, Loves Ugly’s new songs seem less inclined to rip at 100mph all the time. 
But the more important trend evident on this release is the increased use of the band’s beautiful ‘girl-boy vocal dynamic’ — that is, Simon and Floss screaming at each other at the top of their voices. When these two are in full flight, they’re a hard act to beat. So, it’s bloody wonderful to see they’re at each others throats more than once on this new record. There’s the excellent single ..of last year (‘Suck’), the dirty rock song (‘Pump It Baby’), and the extremely cool ‘Voodoo Girl’, where they really go for it. If this is domestic bliss, we want more. 
Artist: THE CHARLATANS 
Album: Tellin' Stories
Record Label: Beggars Banquet
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
It’s actually quite remarkable that the Charlatans have made it to the point where they could release this, their fifth album. How many other bands would still be together through nervous breakdowns, prison sentences, and the devastating death of a pivotal member in a car crash? But that’s the Charlatans for you. They're regularly written off as being well past their useby date, but this just seems to give them more of a reason to come back at their critics with a bunch of good songs. 
It’s just a shame they’ve never been able to string together a whole collection of these good songs on one album. Like each and every previous Charlatans albums, Tellin’ Stories varies in quality from the outright genius to the embarrassingly flaccid. The brilliant on this album: 'One to Another’, a huge song, full of feeling, with a killer groove driving it from beginning to end; ‘Area 51’, a classic Charlatans jam, lead by the late Rob Collins’ wigged-out organ; and ‘Get It On’, a cute little Dylan-inspired pop song. Sadly, not all the tracks are of this quality. The Charlatans deserve to make a great album. With Tellin' Stories, they’ve merely created another good one. 
Artist: TUATARA
Album: Breaking the Ethers
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
Side projects of name musicians are not usually an appealing or enduring concern — scarily, two of the musicians appearing here have previously been involved with Hindu Love Gods and Mad Season — but the day jobs of those contributing to Tuatara is of far less interest than the musical oddity they’ve produced. Breaking the Ethers is a percussively-centred instrumental album utilising (mainly) acoustic instruments, evoking lustrous soundscapes of differing moods and textures, that exists outside of neat little genre categorisation. Many global influences are drawn upon, but as the songs are firmly governed by a linear Western notion of time, the structures are less exotic with accessible (and quite conservative) time signatures; and the ‘world music’ instruments used occupy an aesthetic region, rather than being a strategic affecta-' tion. The marimbas driving the melody of ‘Dreamscape’ bring an ethereal quality to the tone of the piece; the mix of indigenous percussion with jazz elements in ‘Breaking the Ethers/Serengeti’ gives a mesmerising tune some very interesting depth; and elsewhere, sax and piano sail smoothly with congas. The feel and execution is spacious and uncluttered, and sometimes (particularly with that six-string bass) recalls the more resonant noirish moments of. Badalamenti’s Twin Peaks soundtracks; but the vibe here is more ‘coffeehouse’ than ‘arthouse’ — cinematic or not, this is a stand-alone album where visuals are unnecessary to enjoyment or understanding. 
Artist: MATTHEW SWEET
Album: Blue Sky on Mars
Record Label: Zoo
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
Blue Sky On Mars finds Matthew Sweet, pop craftsman extraordinaire, distilling his song-writing essence into 12 short, sharp and melodic bursts. Clocking in at a meagre 36 minutes, the album is Sweet’s stab at creating the classic pop album. By drawing on his usual repertoire of impeccable influences, Sweet has fashioned an album with an other-worldly, out-of-time feel — the album sounding as if it could have been written at anytime during the last 25 years. Yet a scan of the credits reveals the surprising information that Blue Sky on Mars was recorded in October 1997. The future. A simple typographic error? I think not. It’s a clue so obvious, many will miss the unbelievable truth it suggests — Matthew Sweet is a space/time traveller. Once you accept this, everything else about the album begins to fall into place. The 70s Roger Dean (Yes) lettering, the Viking Mars lander cover snaps — for God’s sake, Sweet’s even wearing his time travel suit on the back cover!
Blue Sky on Mars, then, is the freeze-dried sound of pop’s golden past, recorded in the future and thawed out in the present. What’s truly bizarre is that in these confusing times in which we live, Matthew Sweet’s post-modern, pop-smarts, should make such sense and sound so good. 
Artist: THE SEAHORSES 
Album: Do It Yourself
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY 
The cliche goes ‘if you want something done, do it yourself’. Perhaps that’s John Squire’s veiled dig at the fact that his old band, the Stone Roses, were so frozen by inactivity they took five years to follow up their first album. And yet, maybe the title refers to the punk philosophy of DIY, believe in yourself, you can-do it. Squire virtually plucked his other three Seahorses from the streets and clubs of York, auditioned them, and stuck them on a plane to LA to record the album with Tony Visconti. 
A Cinderella story, particularly for Chris Helme who went from busking outside Woolworths to providing the plaintive vocal front and writing three songs in a band with one of this generation’s guitar heroes. There are no signs of Helme being overawed, in fact ‘I Want to Know’ and ‘Blinded by the Sun’ are easily as melodic as anything Squire has written on Do It Yourself.
Squire has said that there are songs about separation and rebirth on the album, references no doubt to his departure from the Stone Roses. But there’s also a strong sense of his bizarre, whimsical English sense of humour on ‘Happiness is Egg-Shaped’, and in the music-hall lewdness of the extended guitar exhibition on the single, ‘Love is the Law’. In fact, an English feel pervades the album: understandable when you consider Visconti was the. production legend who worked with Bowie, T Rex et al. back then; plus Squire’s fluid R&B licks owe their- fretboards to Jimmy Page; and add to that ‘Love Me and Leave Me’, a song written with Liam Gallagher with an opening line of, ‘Don’t believe in Jesus’ — a straight take from ‘God’ on Lennon’s Primal Scream album. 
But what can the Seahorses add to the 90s? In a sense they are the Stone Roses minus Brown’s ego and swagger, and that should be enough. Chris Helme sounds not unlike the Bluetones’ Mark Morris, and like the Bluetones, this is a guitar dependent band whose roots are in English imitations of American traditions. Squire helped break the ground with the Stone Roses, and now he’s in the position to make melodic, idiosyncratic, organic rock ’n’ roll with his own band, that’s good enough. 
Artist: FOLK IMPLOSION
Album: Dare to be Surprised
Record Label: Communion
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
You get the feeling that if people like Lou Barlow and John Davis weren’t putting their energy into making music, they'd be making the news for something far sicker. Like getting busted by the SPCA for keeping 38 cats in a room the size of a phone-box. 
That’s not to say they’re screwballs; it’s just that they aren’t the sort of peopie who follow trends or care too much what else is going on around them. On their-new album, the 10-fi kings again raise their middle finger to current musical trends, but interestingly, at the same time manage to create something pretty accessible to the average punter. Not many of their songs follow the regular verse-chorus-verse format — Lou and John like to get in a zone and go with it. But unlike a lot of bands who just sound stupid when trying to ‘deconstruct the pop song', Folk Implosion can pull it off because they’re such clever songwriters. In a similar way to a band like Pavement, these guys can string together perfect melodies seemingly without any effort at all. I mean, how many bands could get away with a song which matches a country groove with lyrics about sweaty palms (‘Barricade’)?
Artist: DJKOOL 
Album: Let Me Clear My Throat 
Record Label: American
Reviewed By: KIRK GEE
So, why is this long EP/short LP thing, in particular, pretty much the current hip-hop buzz in the States? My best guess is, it’s because Kool has sidestepped all that gangster, East vs. West stuff, and put out something so old school it sounds totally new. He’s got a Kool and the Gang horn riff, a 45 King sample, and a great chanted party rap, all of which makes for a deserved hit record. I could also mention the fact that Kool is from the DC/Virginia area, so there’s a heavy go-go element to his music, lots of call-and-response vocals, and the fine, rolling beat that Trouble Funk and co. have made their own. But the bottom line is, this is rap the way it once was: simple, live goodtime music, with big hooks and big beats that are impossible to ignore. 
Artist: PENNYWISE
Album: Full Circle
Record Label: Epitaph
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
The fourth album from Pennywise, while breaking no new ground, finds them consolidating their distinct and energised sound into a thoroughly accomplished and solid body of songs. Which is precisely where they differ from many of their contemporaries — in their ability to write excellent material, and then steer enough passion and fire into it so it impacts on a number of levels, without obscuring the song itself. Or, put another way if you prefer, Pennywise rocks. 
There are 15 songs here, and not a dud amongst them — unless. you count the painfully tuneless backing vocals on the live rendition of ‘Bro Hymn’; but that can be forgiven as it’s a tribute to deceased bass player Jason Thirsk, from friends who probably don’t sing that much. (A small complaint — when you speak of ‘brotherhood’, what about all the girls into this? Don’t they count?). Full Circle is fast paced and aggressively played, but tempered by the affable and. recognisable vocals of Jim, who delivers the lyrics of social comment and self-empowerment without coming off as a righteous git; and there are several innovative musical touches that considerably raise the interest factor within the sometimes frustatingly limited West Coast sound. The album closes with fifteen minutes of solo piano, played by the Joykillers’ Ronnie King, improvising on a piece that originally appeared at the beginning of ‘Unknown Road’ — presumably indicating the completion of the full circle referred to by the title. It’ll be interesting to see what happens next. 
Artist: L 7 
Album: The Beauty Process: Triple Platinum
Record Label: Slash
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Jennifer Finch has left L 7, and Gail Greenwood had yet to join the band when this album was recorded. That was the news, now gimme the goddamn remote, and let’s switch to talking about something that actually means something in the context of this smelly new album. Got a beer? Get two. Get a whiskey chaser and a pack of Marlboros — not Lights, you softcock! Jesus, don’t you know how to stoke a fire in yer belly? Here, maybe you oughta listen to this while I'm reviewing it to find out. 
Yeah, yeah, I know that screaming on track one’s hard on the ears, but that’s just to sort out the rockers from the suckers, and stop your grandma playing this by accident. You see, things get real good real fast thereafter, with one of the two best tracks (‘Drama’) weighing in heavily in the second track slot. ‘The Masses are Asses’ is the other one... What? Why? Riffs, baby, riffs, crunchy ones, and crazy lead solos — oh, and bits where you can ‘bup-bup-bup’, or ‘aaah-ah-ah, aah-ah-ah’, are good too. 
L 7 won’t care if you don’t like their album, but I'll buy you a beer if you go and tell ’em that to their faces. Anyway, why would you want to, when it’s so obvious they’ll care more deeply if you do like it — as the Italian fan anthem ‘Lorenza, Giada, Alessandra’ proves. 
Artist: SON VOLT 
Album: Straightaways
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Uncle Tupelo may have been a paltry presence in terms of commercial impact, but rising from their dust have been two bands capable of cutting new trails. Jeff Tweedy’s Wilco and their second album, Being There, have already made sure the traditional strains of rock ’n’ roll with a touch of country won’t get left out of this year’s honours list. 
Now it’s the turn of Jay Farrar, the other songwriter who cut his teeth with the ageless Uncle, to give his side of the story with his band Son Volt’s second album, Straightaways. Farrar’s style is warmer, rootsier, closer to the dirt of country roads than Tweedy’s, but that doesn’t mean he can’t find an amplifier, plug in and rock out (as in the gritty electric charges of -‘Caryatid Easy’ and ‘Picking Up the Signal’). 
But on an album that’s about lost highways and ghost towns and derelict motels, it’s the evocations of Farrar’s dry, nasal, country disposition, and Dave Boquist’s lap steel, that call the shots and dominate the album. There won’t be too many songs as moving or downright heartfelt as ‘Back Into Your World' or ‘Way Down Watson’ — a song, incredibly enough, about the destruction of an historic motel.
Straightaways refers to the straight part of a. racetrack and to the natural ease with which the album fell into place; and Farrar definitely shares with Tweedy a native talent for combining rock ’n’ roll traditions with personal inclinations. So, Straightaways ranks alongside Wilco’s Being There as one of the year’s best innovations of American rock ’n’ roll folklore. Both are mandatory. 
Artist: SUKIA
Album: Contacto Espacial Con El Tercer Sexo
Record Label: Mo Wax
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Don’t get this mixed up with locals Sulata. Just don’t. Sukia is, well, you know how there’s this 50s lounge revival? Well; this is pure 90s lounge, with a twisted post-modern sense of the cynically absurd, and an' obscene amount of mind altering wine-gums thrown in. I have no idea what to make of it, but the facts speak for themselves; it’s on Mo Wax, the Dust Brothers are behind it, they credit some guy playing the. Lazer drum machine, it’s dripping with Moog, and they sample, the Cylons — you remember, ‘By Your Command’. It’s bad taste cool that’s pushing the limits. Dean Martin and the Residents getting smashed with a sampler. Oh, and the title means ‘lnterspacial Contact with the Third Sex’!
Artist: CHUG 
Album: Metalon
Record Label: Alias
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
After the hugely disappointing Sassafras, Chug seemed destined for cheapie bin obscurity. A recent change in personnel has beefed and spiced up the sound, creating a behemoth of wiggy rock proportions — yes, Dave Mitchell joined the band! The similarities with the 3Ds end about there (apart from some Denise Roughan vocals on ‘Good Morning Midnight’), as cartoon theme ‘Catbag’ (‘Come on, do what you oughta!’), swamp rollicking ‘Queen Bee’, and the closing titanium masterpiece, ‘Metalon’, testify. There’s a definite pulse rocking through this, Chug’s first effort for American label Alias (home of punk rock’s finest, including the stupefying Archers of Loaf), and if I really had to I’d pick ‘Viva”s Eno effervescent qualities over any hangover tonic — as catchy as the tapanui flu and destined for a solid A-side perhaps? Metalon consistently delivers Mt Rushmore sized granite — take a chunk.
Artist: THE STONE ROSES 
Album: Garage Flower
Record Label: Garage Flower
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
The now-defunct Stone Roses made a debut album everybody should cherish, and a second album only fans who weren’t miffed about the lengthy wait (and attendant musical era changes) that preceded it seemed to cherish, and there would have been as good a place as any for the story to stop, it hasn’t. Following The Complete Stone Roses (which wasn’t), comes another album of crunchy takes on the same old stuff from god knows where for god knows why. The correct term for this sort of thing is 'flogging a dead horse’, but never have I seen a nag being given its beans so half-heartedly. Incredibly, no one’s bothered to write the neccessary liner notes; and quite frankly, I can’t be bothered continuing to pass comment on such an unneccessary package. This band is so over — can’t we just leave it at that? 
Artist: SUPERSUCKERS 
Album: Must’ve Been High 
Record Label: Sub Pop
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
It could be a result of too much sun in their hometown of Tucson, AZ., too much rain in their adopted home of Seattle, or maybe just a side-effect of wearing those 10-gallon hats all the time — whatever, the Supersuckers have gone and made a country album. And unlike Ween’s effort last year, the Nashville skyline isn’t so firmly imprinted on the horizon here; as the Supersuckers take on bluegrass, western cowboy laments, and some Buck Owens-flavoured Bakersfield country. These styles lend themselves readily to the boys’ off beat tales of alcohol, drug use, and road life, without too much of a stretch; because believe it or not, kids, that’s what country’s all about. There are some great songs here:. ‘Hangliders’, the westernish instrumental (a sadly neglected element in country); the Okie-from-Muskogee vibe of ‘Non-Addictive Marijuana’ at odds with the lyrical content;, and the duet with Kelley Deal, ‘Hungover Together’ — all complemented by some fine playing. Any country credentials or skills the Supersuckers lack are made up for by the pedal steels, fiddles and harps of their guests: ‘hired guns’ from the bands of. Willie Nelson, Dwight Yoakam and Jesse Dayton (even Willie Nelson himself, via telephone, on the title track). The end result is so convincing that when the closing track unexpectedly explodes in a full-on Supersucker rock-out, the contrast recalls the Blues Brothers at the country and western roadhouse —- “That ain’t no Hank Williams!" On the strength of this record, it’s easy to forget that the Supersuckers won’t really be considered a genuine country band — but hey, why the hell not? 
Artist: REEF 
Album: Glow 
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
Reef... So, should that be Reith? As in Keith/Keef? Hell, all’s I know is that this band of Brit shit-kickers wanna reclaim the south (metaphorically — not Southend!) with a great Stones frame o' mind, an’ are howlin’ out their message in the best traditions of trans-Atlantic fried guitar gumbo... 
Riffs hot ’n’ heavy grind through ‘I Would Have Left You’, and axe histronics as such to leave us waiting for the Dwane Allman/Eric Clapton duel á la Derek and the Dominos…
Yeah, the stage is set: relivin’ that grey/green period between 69 and 73, but that ain’t so bad... We all have to find our place, an’ I guess Reef’s heart still lies in the zone betwixt hippie love ’n’ peace and record company-induced orgies of opulence. 
‘Look Back Brighter’ and the single, ‘Place Your Hands', are feelin’ the heat anthems with more crunchin’ riffs, and Gary Sringer’s strained to the point of bustin’ vocals. It ain’t a new concept, but, more often than not, new concepts suck. 
Indeed, I can sense ‘Look Back Brighter’ coming back on the soundtrack to the new Richard Linklater movie... It’s that sort of song. . 
Artist: TEN FOOT POLE 
Album: Unleashed
Record Label: Epitaph
ReviewedBy: TROY FERGUSON
One problem with much of this play-it-safe contemporary pop-punk is that it’s so meek, polite and devoid of passion, it lacks the excitement or danger of anything that might be generated if those playing it would just loosen up and let rip. OK, so Ten Foot Pole probably have no aspirations to be GG Allin or whatever, and nor should they — it’s just that their music is so userfriendly, unchallenging and courteous-, it’s like a decaffeinated diet cola: no real kick, definition, or lasting impression. Some nice pop melodies and tight arrangements ensure this will appeal to the less discriminating fans of this type of thing; but you get the feeling when Ten Foot Pole are unleashed, they wag their collective tail, and — with a cute little yap —- beg, sit, and play dead. Nice doggie. 
Artist: GUS GUS 
Album: Polydistortion
Record Label: 4AD
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
I hope it’s not just because they come from Iceland. They’re like a 14piece or something, huddling fom the cold, trying to whack out a couple of tunes while they’re at it. And some of the tracks are biggedy bam material. ‘Believe’ is a cowbelled ‘Pump Up the Volume’, minus the samples, with Beloved vocals and Chem Brothers squeals. 
‘Polyyesterday’ jazzes along with some slide guitar; ‘Barry’ funks along like a Bill Bailey Starsky and Hutch routine; and ‘Cold Breath 79’ is six-and-a-half minutes of fourplay with a vocalist who recalls Opus 3’s ‘Fine Day’. 
But it hasn’t really jumped on the stereo. A bit unfocussed and, well, good and all, but, well, plain. Too many cooks buttering both sides of their moss covered stones. 
Artist: MISFITS 
Album: American Psycho 
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
The Misfits, in the 13 years since their last recordings, have become the stuff of legend. As one of the anomalies occasionally thrown up by the American underground, their considerable influence is covert rather than overt; and the ‘Crimson Ghost’ death’s head logo and devil’s forelock hairstyles may be more familiar to this generation than the actual music this seminal New Jersey outfit made before they split. 
Now, with an entirely new album, the Misfits play the zombie card and rise from the grave, and not quite corpus intacti either. This reanimated Misfits is without the voice of Glen Danzig (he finally lost the protracted litigation against Jerry Only and Doyle — bass and guitar respectively — over use of the name), but it couldn’t have turned out this well with his involvement. The Misfits’ primal American rock ’n’ roll is a kind of punk rock version of 50s B-movie sci-fi, and Danzig is now occupied with another horror altogether — a sort of bio-mechanical mutation trip to techno-Vegas; and that’s like the stylistic distance between the alien invasions of Plan 9 From Outer Space and The X-Files. Current vocalist Michale Graves has carved his own distinct inscription on the headstone with a growling, guttural sneer, and a hint of Elvis; and though it may be a little heavy on the ‘whoa-whoa’ backing vocals, the adrenalized bursts of brazen raw power the band delivers roughly approximate the thematic concerns of Martians, doomsday and the living dead. 
Sounding fresh and vital, the 90s sonic revamp hasn’t totally desecrated the Misfits legend either — the rough, garagey energy of 20 years ago claws out of the produced veneer like a rabid beast. The Misfits comeback could have fizzled like so many horror sequels — instead it’s a Frankenstein's monster of terrifyingly huge proportions. 
Artist: CARLTON PATTERSON AND KING TUBBY 
Album: Psalm of Drums: The Black And White Story 
Record Label: Pressure Sounds
Reviewed By: JUSTIN REDDING
Hey, how about those liner notes: ‘...this is the first ever compilation of material from the Jamaican Black and White label. Carlton Patterson’s distinctive roots productions, coupled with the engineering genius of King Tubby, resulted in a catalogue of sounds much sought after by collectors over 20 years. The tracks included here afford an overdue perspective of this neglected producer’s output with vocals, toasts, instrumentals and dub versions which have achieved permanent status as part of the great wealth of Jamaican music.’ 
What we have here is a collection of pedigree Jamaican roots rhythms from the famous Tubby and his lesser known collaborator, featuring the talents of Sly & Robbie, Dillinger and Ansell Collins, among others. Even if you’re not a trainspotter for this kind of stuff, this comp’ is worth owning for the fact it’s a mighty pleasant form of music. All those in favour say I and I. 
Artist: FEAR FACTORY 
Album: Remanufacture / Cloning Technology 
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
Remanufacture is, of course, a remixed and reconstructed version of last year’s Demanufacture album. Rather than merely flirting with ‘dance versions’ of their tunes, Fear Factory have given seemingly unlimited freedom to the various producers and DJs tinkering around with the masters, and the end result is something quite removed from the originals. (And no, those much-discussed Prodigy mixes are not here). 
Front Line Assembly’s Rhys Fulber, who was behind Fear Factory’s last remix excursion, Fear is the Mindkiller EP, mans the controls for much of this. His efforts are the least adventurous, however, he still manages to flavour tracks with rhythms ranging from drum ’n’ bass, to techno, to hiphop. ‘Machines of Hate (Self Bias Resistor)' is well worth the effort though. Junkie XL attempts more of an overhaul, dropping Chuck D samples into ‘Burn (Flashpoint)’, and adding a hookline not present on the original, and sequencing up a storm on ‘Genetic Blueprint (New Breed)’; while Kingsize takes a more industrial approach to ‘Cloning Technology (Replica)’, and ends up turning it into Gravity Kills. The most radical transformation has been effected by DJ DanO, who takes ‘H-K’ and brutally turns it into startlingly sparse gabba, where the vocal track becomes disembodied percussive punctuation, incessantly hammering into your consciousness. Sure, the lines are blurred over who’s going to like this album, but even if Fear Factory ain’t your bag, give it a spin — it may be better than the original. 
Artist: INXS 
Album: Elegantly Wasted 
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Archetypal 80s rcokers INXS have to win most gauche album title award for this one, which features an elegant and possibly wasted Christy Turlington on the cover, hand to brow, caught with an expression of confusion and bewilderment. Maybe she’d just heard the album... 
Not for INXS the rigorous (and often ridiculous) concern for relevance a la pop stars U2 (what was it with numbers and letters back then, eh?), no DJs at the controls here — sure there’s what sounds like a sitar on 'We Are Thrown Together’, and there’s the jazzy shuffle which begins ‘Building Bridges’, but essentially this is another INXS rock record. 
If ‘Show Me (Cherry Baby)’ isn’t your cup of tea, skip to the title track or ‘Don’t Lose Your Head’, which features Hutchence’s best Jagger imitation yet, and you’ll hear the sound of a very desperate rock band; one scared to death no one’s listening any more.