Artist: DAM NATIVE 
Album: Kaupapa Driven Rhymes Uplifted
Record Label: Tangata
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Aotearoa hip hop has really come of age in the last couple of years. A new maturity — evident in the evolution of a distinctive local identity — has already brought excellent recent material from DLT, and Lost Tribe, and now the . much-anticipated (and often delayed) album from Dam Native.
KDRU may not have much in the way of poppy chorus hooks (aside from Teremoana Rapley’s lines on ‘Horrified One’, and Che Fu’s soul section of ‘The Son’), but DAM’S kool style, instilled with a flax-roots credibility, doesn’t adhere to modern rap formula — opting instead to filter a myriad of reggae and jazz influences through the songs. Producer Zane Lowe gives ‘Extremities’ a subdued eeriness, adds an upbeat swagger to ‘Battle Styles’, and a real flow in the interludes. 
Like the three singles, KDRU holds the balance between statement and understatement, and the lyrical weight is offset by the often low-key vocal delivery of Daniel Haimona and crew. 
Adopting a holistic cultural approach, Dam Native have incorporated hip hop’s ‘Four Realms Of Existence’ into a contemporary Maori context, and in the process, created an album with both indigenous relevance and an international flavour — and maybe one of the finest local releases this year.
Artist: THE VERVE 
Album: Urban Hymns 
Record Company: Hut
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
When the Verve split up two years ago, after the relative commercial failure of A Northern Soul, it seemed to be the end for a band whose selfbelief and arrogance couldn’t tolerate failure at any level. Their re-emergence this year from their “gravity grave" saw them wiser, more patient, more appreciative of each other, and carrying a blazing set of new songs more powerful and moving than anything-they’d previously even hinted at. 
So Urban Hymns, two years in the making, is the end product of lessons learned from a band who know they're dead lucky to be getting another grab at pop’s glitter — and this time they don’t blow it. It has to begin with ‘Bitter Sweet Symphony', a torch song of personal/social disaffection ironically now ‘owned’ by Allen Klein, one of the operators that makes life so bitter(sweet). Admirably the band wrote it off as just showbiz. Next up is ‘Sonnet’, a beautiful ballad‘with Ashcroft’s assurance, ‘Yes there’s love if you want it I Don’t sound like a sonnet’. From there a change of pace with the Zeppelin stomp of 'The Rolling People’, the ideal contrast to the following wracked country soul of ‘The Drugs Don’t Work’ — a song criminally dislodged from the Number One spot in the British charts by Elton John’s mawkish re-make of his awful ‘Candle In The Wind’. 
Ethereal interlude, ‘Neon Wilderness’, recorded incidentally in the dying minutes of the album’s studio time, essentially divides the album in two. ‘Space and Time’, with Ashcroft admitting ‘I just can’t make it alone’, is the first of six superb ballads, lush, moving symphonies of hope, as in ‘Lucky Man’, or helplessness as in the refrain of ‘life is a game you’ve tried’ in the countryish ‘Velvet Morning’. This album may end with the cracking call for action of ‘Come On’, but Urban Hymns is predominantly about beautifully conveyed personal angst. Album of the year, no contest. 
Artist: EVERCLEAR 
Album: So Much for the Afterglow
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
It could only have been the most cynical among us that managed to remain unmoved (in the up and down directions) by Everclear’s breakthrough album, Sparkle and Fade. And I’ll bet those cynics will be busting their cruelly sneering jaws with glee when they hear the many ways in which So Much for the Afterglow imitates its predecessor. The only real diversions from an otherwise strict adherence to the proven game plan, are the aptly titled scratch-rock instrumental, ‘EI Distorto Melodica’, the odd funny little sample (listen hard for the ‘oh, oh’s’ in ‘Normal Like You’), and the album opening, Beach Boys-style intro to the title track (which only sings ‘gimmick’ to my ears). The appropriately speedy ‘Amphetamine’ is even about a girl called Amphetamine, just to prove things aren’t moving very far on the casting front either — still, it sure does fade out pretty. While it all adds up to a new album you could like as much as the old one, repetition always tends to come out sounding more watered down than original inspiration, and that’s what will disappoint you.
Artist: CHRIS KNOX 
Album: Yes!! 
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
Better than Seizure (previously my favourite Knox solo) with more experimentation in terms of song and vocal styles. 
Knox may be a modern Kiwi folk singer with songs to make us look at ourselves, both personally and politically (see ‘Song to Welcome the Onset of Maturity’ and ‘Song for 1990’ as examples of both) but on ‘Pibroch’ he goes one step further and adds a reflective, melancholic (Leonard Cohen-ish??) lilt to his voice which makes it a treat, both in a hunched over the lyric sheet and a swirling-with-a-pint kind of way. If that is a nod to the folk generation, then ‘Uncoupled’ is Knox’s tribute to Eurobeat, and Reed/Velvets get a look in on ‘Tantamount to Treasury.’ For the word-geeks, there’s the four line masterpiece ‘Almost Tempted’, which should turn more heads than any epic poem with its sheer building brilliance. 
Yes!!, as an exclamation of final and life-changing understanding, is quite easily Chris Knox’s best solo album yet. 
Artist: SWEET 75 
Album: Sweet 75
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Whoever started the rumour that Krist Novoselic’s new band had made a lounge album should win the Tall Tale Run Amok Award for 1997. Singer Yva Las Vegas has got a set of lungs on her that could smash a martini glass at 50 paces; and although she keeps such talents under wraps as you ease into the album, when she finally lets the cat out of the bag on track three (‘Bite My Hand’), it’s pretty obvious she’s not one of the gentle people. I suggest diving in at the guitar end first, where often maniacally inventive arrangements will lead you through a proliferation of primo horn playing (that’s big Herb Alpert on the Venezuelan number, ‘La Vida’), with much of the time kept by some splintering stick work from one ‘William’ Rieflin (Ministry saga followers might be interested to note). It’s a little bit country, it’s a lot rock ‘n’ roll, and I don’t recommend it for a civilised soiree soundtrack. 
Artist: TANYA DONELLY 
Album: Love Songs For Underdogs
Record Label: 4AD
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
Love Songs For Underdogs hardly marks a radical shift in Donelly’s signature sound. Fans of Throwing Muses and Belly will be familiar . with the musical stylings on offer here, but as the title suggests, it does display a softer underbelly than she has previously revealed. This is due in part to a more direct lyrical approach, which eschews some of the wilfully cryptic and perverse tendencies of Donelly’s previous work. Occasionally, this makes for a less interesting listen — particularly when Donelly slips into the grandiose sentiments of ‘Mysteries of the Unexplained’ or ‘Clipped’. The gorgeous Sinead-like lament of ‘Manna’ aside, Donelly’s improbably girlish voice is unable to impart the necessary gravity these heart-felt lyrical moments demand. Far more effective is the off-the-wall pop-smarts of opener 'Pretty Deep’. Here, sweet ‘n’ sour vocals, over-driven guitars and a stunning melody are whipped into a heady brew — frothy on top, but with a kick like a mule. Or perhaps a goat. For on the delightfully irreverent ‘Goat Girl’, Donelly is found, ‘thinking goatish thoughts / Dreaming goatish dreams / Digging up tin cans / Chewing on your sleeve.’ 
It’s been nigh on two years since Tanya Donelly’s former band Belly breathed their last. The usual bout of soul searching that comes when a band breaks-up seems to have done little long-term damage to the Donelly psyche. Her ability to write a winning tune, with unexpected chord changes and tempo twists slipped in for good measure, remains undiminished. In spite of the odd lyrical blue, it’s clear she’s not about to fall into comfortable indie-middle-age just yet.
Artist: COLDCUT 
Album: Let Us Play
Record Label: Ninja Tune
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
Coldcutters Jonathan More and Matt Black haven’t been very, musically productive in the past three. Instead, they’ve been setting up a world-dominating independent record label (Ninja Tunes), running a highly successful club night, starting a multimedia company — which put together the CD-ROM which comes with this album (games, videos, biography — the usual sort of stuff) — as well as turning their talents to reworking other people’s music. They’re back now, and back with an album large on hype and publicity, but surprisingly low on good songs. 
Not too often is there the jawdropping ‘wow’ factor you’d have hoped for with this record. In fact, some of the material seems to be far from inventive, perhaps a consequence of the album’s long period in the production process. ‘Every Home a Prison’ features spoken word from Jello Biafra, while William Burroughs sneaks in posthumously for a few words as well. Hasn’t this been done before? Another track, ‘Timber’, samples something which sounds like Deep Forest, and comes off sounding like... well, Deep Forest. Of course, when Coldcut are good, they’re damn good and this is the case with a select few cuts here. ‘More Beats and Pieces’, with its near-industrial noises and samples is faultless, and on ‘Rubaiyat’, Coldcut show they can do the breakbeat thing as well as anyone. But the best is saved for last, the humour-filled ‘l’m Wild About That Thing’. Then, and really only then, do Coldcut live up to the hype. 
Artist: BJORK 
Album: Homogenic 
Record Label: Mother
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
‘lf travel is searching I And home what’s been found I I’m not stopping / I’m going hunting / I’m the hunter I I’ll bring back the goods I But I don’t know when...’ 
So opens the next chapter, for the little songstress who could, and as for those goods, they’re right here right now. This lead lyric (from ‘Hunter’) is typical of the acid clarity coating every word within the album, and the delivery finds Bjork scaling peaks of ever more surprising heights, with a beat box always strapped firmly to her back. The spooky industrial sounds of ‘Pluto’ bear the finest example of Bjork’s cyborg-like fusion with technology, when she begins a scale ‘loop’ which anyone else would have sampled, and manages to sustain it to levels capable of making your heart stop.
The album’s beatscape comes courtesy of Mark Bell from LFO, and its third major contributor is the Icelandic String Octet, scored by Bjork and Eumir Deodato. For an epic example in around five minutes of how well all this gels, check ‘Bachelorette’ and be sleighed. Although additional mixing on some tracks was done by Howie B and the Wu Tang Clan’s RZA, there is nothing of the 'on walks the guest star’ feel the varied nature of Post displayed. 
Homogenic is a bold and beautiful trip you will be unable to disembark from till the conductor has well and truly wrung you out by journey’s end. If we all lay down and listened to this album at the same time, I’m sure Bjork’s message of, ‘Don’t get angry with yourself / I’ll heal you,’ (‘All Neon Like’) could really take effect. Just tune into those heart-like beats, and let the lady show you what the world’s designs may well add up to. 
Artist: BENTLEY RHYTHM ACE 
Album: BRA 
Record Label: Parlophone
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Forget the record company jumping politics (they moved from Skint to Parlophone with this album). No matter who you get it through or when you get it, BRA is up there as one of 1997’s top dance albums, alongside the Chemical Brothers and Daft Punk. They describe themselves as ‘CarBootTechnoDisco’, which is handy for reviewers, but pretty poxy if you want to know what they sound like. So here goes.
They sound like cool. Like if you drank a glass of cool and started to exude dance music out of every orifice you’d be like a Bentley album. Every noise is a new joy, from cartoon FX to submarine horns to ‘Thing On A Spring’ samples to god knows where. half of this stuff originated. Add their rhythms that sway and pulse and hype, and groove — breakbeat with a dash. of drum ‘n’ bass and some seriously delicious all encompassing beat magic. There’s enough voodoo in here to make baboons boogie in the cold moonlight. And there’s not a hint of hard-arsed ego dance, Mike Stokes and Richard March (ex Pop Will Eat Itself) just radiate good vibes and humour. It almost feels like the Beasties’ Paul’s Boutique in some ways. So buy it, play it, and get the party started right.
Artist: THE CRAMPS 
Album: Big Beats From Badsville
Record Label: Epitaph
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Once upon a time, the Cramps skated on the razor-sharp side of the cutting edge; sounding like the genetically-engineered progeny of Elvis and Screaming Jay Hawkins, which had fallen into a fetid swamp, mutated and was out to paint hell-town red. Truly manic and spine-tingling, they gave the 70s and 80s ‘deviant rockabilly’, which mixed visual elements of fetishism, bondage and sleazy exhibitionism, with a campy, evil rock ‘n’ roll danger. In short, they were total kooks, who played some real exciting, primal sounds. 
These days, the music still sounds fine. The songs are close to vintage Cramps, and the current rhythm section holds its own when measured against the classic Kid Congo Powersera model. But unfortunately, Lux Interior and Poison Ivy may be suffering the curse of longevity, and it just doesn’t seem quite as wild anymore. In the same way that vampires aren’t as scary as many regular citizens who are out there now, the Cramps though they haven’t toned down or straightened out — just don’t have the same effect.
Artist: FOREST FOR THE TREES 
Album: Forest For The Trees
Record Label: Dreamworks
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
From the opening notes of this album, it’s pretty plain to see that Carl Stephenson (aka Forest For The Trees) isn’t your average songwriter. 
Beginning with the sounds of some wavering - bagpipes, the bagpipes quickly give way to a rampant sitar riff. The sitar is then joined by the Beck-like rapping of Stephenson and before you know it, you’re caught’ up in an altogether unlikely pop song combining odd instrumentation, .hiphop beats and clever samples. Completely against the odds, the various styles Stephenson uses all seem to fit in place with the result being an unusually fresh, effortless sound. Even more impressive when you learn that most of these songs were written five years ago. Stephenson penned most of these songs about the same time he was co-writing songs for a friend called Beck Hanson, including one particular ditty called ‘Loser’. This album has been delayed until now because of Stephenson suffering from anxiety attacks which saw him regularly hospitalised. You’d think in five years the songs would have dated, but nope, Stephenson is -doing-stuff- which sounds very much at home in 1997 — if not years beyond this. 
Artist: ECHO & THE BUNNYMEN 
Album: Evergreen
Record Label: London
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY 
The recent release of the Bunnymen’s greatest hits has served as a reminder as to why they were one of the beacons of the 80s, and as such, probably hasn’t done the bands comeback any favours. Unless of course the reformed Bunnymen trio have managed to transcend their earlier classics, which they haven’t. 
Evergreen is a modestly successful, easily digestable album from a band working well within their limitations and their own past formulas. Much has been made of their hit ballad ‘Nothing Lasts Forever’, and fair enough because McCulloch has been around long enough to give it the timbre of experience. And elsewhere they trot out commendable Bunnymen riffs like ‘Don’t Let It Get You Down’, but without the intensity and vigour of their youthful days. 
The cover may recall the psychedelic mystery and electricity of their first album, Crocodiles, but Evergreen is only a likeable return for a band showing distinctly deciduous tinges.
Artist: TALK SHOW 
Album: Talk Show
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
They’re a new band you already know — Stone Temple Pilots minus guess who. One Dean Coutts has stepped into the shoes formerly filled by Scott Weiland, and with the future of STP looking uncertain, it’s nice to report that Talk Show are a worthy replacement in the void. They make big and breezy blasts of rock ‘n’ roll, with stone cold hearts crying tears that feel good on their way out. The whole band had a hand in a book of lyrics that mean something, and buck nothing but the everyday agonies. Coutts’ sweetly ravaged vocals. lead you confidently down the road of pain to a door of release, and the DeLeo brothers’ endlessly intricate bass and guitar lines make sure the trip is never boring. It would be a crime not to mention drummer Eric Kretz and additional musician Dave Zeller’s excellent contributions on various keyboards in many of the right. on spots too. I’ve been making it my mission to spread these deliciously contradictory sounds as far from my stereo and into my neighbourhood as I can — ’cause it all sounds even better blasting out your windows on a sunny day. If.you help me we could have a summer hit on our hands. 
Artist: SUICIDAL TENDENCIES 
Album: Prime Cuts
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Here’s the compilation that Mike Muir didn’t want released, but legal pressure from his (ex) record company gave him little choice. Luckily, it’s not all redundant, as it features newly recorded material from Suicidal (the calibre of which bodes well for the next album). The brand new ‘Bezerk!’, and ‘Feeding The Addiction’, fall somewhere between the muscled-up rhythms of Infectious Grooves and the slick slamming action of Suicidal For Life. There’s also newly arranged and funked-up versions of two classics, ‘Join the New Army’, and ‘Go Skate! (Possessed To Skate 97)’, which are worthwhile revisitations. Otherwise, you’re left with a selection of songs’from How Will I Laugh Tomorrow, Lights Camera Revolution, Art Of Rebellion, and Suicidal For Life. The only older material appears in the form of the 1992 re-recordings of the crucial first album. 
Prime Cuts is a reasonable overview of the Suicidals, but it’s not the definitive Cyco collection. It’s more rump steak than prime cut, I’m afraid. 
Artist: MORRISSEY 
Album: Maladjusted
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
The title song is great, and brings back all those teen angst memories of cold nights, warm beer, and living your life through ‘How Soon is Now.’ I could just be that voice shining through the opening guitar lines, but it certainly does everything the Mozzer ever promised. Pity the rest of the album doesn’t stand the test. 
With a title like ‘Trouble Loves Me’, we could hope to expect a tear drenched, laugh-a-minute. But no. We get a yawn fest. It seems, and it’s not just this track but most of the album, that Morrissey feels he can hide behind the whine and skip the substance. There are no cutting references to modern England, or the state of a wilted, flower broken heart. Perhaps Tony Blair’s Britain is not quite oppressive enough.
Artist: BURT BACHARACH 
Album: Hitmaker! Burt Bacharach Plays His Hits 
Record Label: Universal
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
It’s no wonder Burt Bacharach wonders if the world knows something he doesn’t regarding his mortality status, judging by the profile he’s been afforded of late. Hitmaker! boasts bearing ‘the sound and talent of 1966... HERE TODAY’. It features liner notes from 1972 (and ‘comprehensive’ is not the word I’d use to describe them). You guessed it, it’s a repackaging. There’s a bonus track of ‘And So Goodbye My Love’, and you also get the previously unreleased (and, frankly, rather geriatric) ‘Sail on Silv’ry Moon’. All the words are here too, which is strange, as the vocals are largely absent from most of the songs, with the singer credits absent altogether! 
Unless you’re up for a spot of karaoke, I suggest you skip this and head straight for the recent compilation of hit takes on Bacharach/Hal David, numbers, The Look of Love. Alternatively, check the composer credits on some of Mom and Pop’s old long players — and no jumping on that loose board by the gramophone, y’hear? 
Artist: GODFLESH 
Album: Love And Hate In Dub
Record Label: Earache
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Heavy band + remix technology = crossover success (and/or yawn). It does seem that everyone’s doing it to death — but as it was Godflesh who adjusted the direction of industrial music so the courtship of the metal and dance mainstreams got underway, opening the door for this sort of remix treatment, they should perhaps be given more of a hearing than most. 
This remixed version of Songs Of Love and Hate is not, as the title suggests, a dub album. In fact, it’s not even that far removed from the source material, with the industrial beats being replaced by other industrial beats, leaning further towards the dancefloor, yet maintaining Justin Broderick’s heart of darkness and emotionally-detached brutality. There’s less vocal, which accentuates the songs innards of machinery, but evident is still a very human (mortal?) side of Godflesh, one consumed by the kind of hatred that propels this album from a sterile computer-generated environment, into one dripping with thick, black bodily fluids and splintered bone. Blood on the dancefloor, indeed. 
Artist: THE NEW LOUNGEHEAD 
Album: Came A Weird Way
Record Label: Deepgrooves
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON 
Jazz is cool. It crosses languages and cultures, and although we can tell eastern European jazz from Latin American jazz, it’s still all very universal. Being local, all the wankers are going to say, ‘Oh, the New Lounge Heads... they sound so...Antipodean.’ Which, of course, is bollocks as they sound fresh and contemporary, and on ‘Waiting For Candy Apple’, fantastic. It’s not until the vocal outing on ‘Faker’ that I do get a bit of culture cringe. But within the realms of instrumental only, Came A Weird Way is worth a listen.
Artist: THE CAKE KITCHEN 
Album: Everything’s Going To Work Out Just Fine
Record Label: Freek
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Living proof that some of our best music is produced overseas, Graeme Jefferies continues his own personal legacy with his sixth album under this moniker (excluding the 1988 solo Messages From The Cakekitchen). It's all still there, the wall of scorched guitar countered by acoustic moments, and moody vocal delivery via velvet baritone vocal chords. If you’re a fan of long or recent vintage you needn’t be too concerned over Mr J’s extended OE, as he stays true to his long term musical formulae. All except one (the jack hammered ‘Hot Sex Overdrive’) of the eight tracks tips the four minute mark, four pass five, and the height scaling ‘You Never Run Out Of Luck’ builds to a frenzy, and doesn’t out stay its welcome before 12 minutes pass. Nary a dog in sight, EGTWOJF just begs the question, when will the inspiration stop? Obviously never for the (other) musical genius of Stratford, Taranaki! 
Artist: SARAH MCLACHLAN 
Album: Surfacing
Record Label: Arista
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Founder of the recent success story the women-only Lilith Tour of America, McLachlan’s follow-up to Fumbling Towards Ecstasy is a reflective and introspective outing. Produced by Pierre Marchand, it has a lovely sheen to it — and a wonderful piano sound! McLachlan overcame a lengthy writing block to complete the album. 
Highlights are the first single, the snarky ‘Building a Mystery’, a lovely ‘Sweet Surrender’ (no,not the Tim Buckley number), and the instrumental closer,‘Last Dance’.
If at times Surfacing suffers from a musical and lyrical richness that threatens at moments to lapse into an overkill, McLachlan’s humility saves the day. A truly personal album, Surfacing won’t suit all tastes — but to those sensitive souls who empathise with McLachlan’s surfacings, this is rewardingly melodic stuff
Artist: MOTORSHEEP 
Album: The Passionless Are Fearless
Record Label: Pivot
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Motorsheep are a true DIY punk band with all the trimmings. As such, the Palmerston North quartet have released their debut album after existing for almost seven years. Their raw noise, honed down to a fine fat mess of melody, has been recorded in its full primal state — in other words, it’s pretty rough. But, there’s a lot of merit here; plenty of short, urgent anthems to wasted time and the pleasures derived from it. Then again, Motorsheep seem to represent more than justifying an empty existence, with bassist Jarrod Love publishing the Undercurrent zine. This kind of involvement in the ‘scene’ is mirrored in the energy Motorsheep have, especially on tracks like ‘Alzheimers’ and ‘Splash.’ If that horrible teenage band that practice next door were half as good as this, you wouldn’t have to burn their flat down. 
Artist: LUNATIC CALM 
Album: Metropol
Record Label: Universal
Artist: ARKANA 
Album: Fresh Meat 
Record Label: WEA
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
There’s a new wave of dance bands with guitars out of England. Lunatic Calm — it’s got to be said — are a perfect mix of Nine Inch Nails and Prodigy. Not that the music’s perfect, they just perfectly fit into that easy general definition. The distorted vocals, the industrial use of guitars, the creepy horror filled slower tracks and the pacey big beats that are just dripping with Howlett. They’ve been playing the Social and hanging out with Fatboy Slim, and doing all the right things. Maybe they’ll grow on me.
And as for Arkana — well they’re like the English Wallflowers, in the sense that they’re a second generation pop group (Lalo Creme’s dad used to be a pop star once, come on you must remember). A poppy bunch of sods, they proved they could come up with the tunes with ‘House On Fire’, and on Fresh Meat, they open out to reveal more similar stuff. I really don’t want to mention Jesus Jones, because they’re a lot better than that, but there’s the scary smell of too much marketing lingering around. Three over-privileged young geezers mucking about with drum machines and guitars, who might have a future. But as one of their singles goes, the future’s overrated. 
Artist: THE TERMINALS 
Album: Terminals Live 
Record Label: Medication
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Sibling label to Port Chalmers’ Metonymic, Medication follow-the-more structured side of music as art, and are to be loudly applauded for this. The Terminals, owing some personnel and stylings to the Victor Dimisch Band, have gone and left a neatly piled legacy for all to enjoy, and Medication has had the good taste to wrap up some of their better live performances. There’s 15 tracks in all, dating from 1990 to 1996, and covering most of their vinyl output, including Psycho Lives, Do the Void, Cul-de Sac, and Mekong Delta Blues. The recording quality is good to fair and mostly taken from cassettes, but don’t let that scare you away from a disc that’s deserving of your attention and patronage. 
Artist: TIM WERRY 
Album: Evil Star
Record Label: Shine
Reviewed By: CHRIS BOURKE
Our beer, here, may be Lion Red, but for roots rockers the themes are universal. At home in any honky tonk would be Tim Werry’s spirited tales of heartaches and hangovers. Evil Star is his first solo album, but Werry is a country-rock stalwart in Auckland. In bands such as Rank And File, and the Waltons, Werry’s quest for authenticity has provided the soundtrack in many of the town’s grittier bar-rooms.
On Evil Star, Werry’s own songs sit comfortably alongside astute choices by -his heroes, outlaws such as Billy' Joe Shaver and Dwight Yoakam, and perennials like Leadbelly and the Louvin Brothers. The locally-flavoured: originals have a laconic, Paul Kelly yarnspinning quality, delivered in an earnest, charming voice. The relaxed band romps along, led by Glenn Campbell (dobro, steel) and Stuart Pearce (piano) — though their lyrical, informed playing struggles to be heard in a mix which sounds strangely compressed. 
But any engineering problems are compensated for by Evil Star's consistent material, its melodies and overall humour. 
Artist: PARADISE LOST
Album: One Second
Record Label: Music For Nations
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Paradise Lost have slipped further away from the doom metal they once made, and now the English band create a more classic rock sound, yet one that still finds its inspiration in melancholy. The full, textured production of One Second lends itself to the scope and structure of the songs. 
Nick Holmes' vocals have always had a dark side, and although in a more commercial setting, they still sound anguished. Without a particularly optimistic outlook, Paradise Lost can sound like another lot of limey whiners, but there’s more going on here. Their more accessible sound is a distillation of decades of British hard rock, from the gloom of early Sabbath, the pioneering rifforama of NWOBHM types Diamond Head, through to the bleakness of My Dying Bride and Cathedral.
Artist: DEBRIS 
Album: Super 8 Mayhem
Record Label: Dirge
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Debris emerge from the rubble that is Christchurch rock, post the exodus of LUC, Future Stupid, Chicane, etc, and pick up their outcasts and attempt to combine it for recycled consumption. Opening track ‘Rocket Liner’, flips' between serious ‘Grader Spader’ homage and anglo shoe gazing — some thing Christchurch feasted on in a cannibalistic frenzy a few years back. ‘Lyda’ is naive moody guitar rock ala Eye TV earnest, but none too convincing; "Happy Day’ possesses more of a pulse; ‘Dirge Inc.’ samples Polyester before launching a Salem 66 guitar attack, that finds me nodding in increasing favour especially as there are no vocals just samples. Other tracks to get some kind of a positive response were ‘Ultra Wired’ and ‘Guilty Conscience’. Not the worst thing I’ve listened to lately, not the best, Super 8 Mayhem left me feeling pretty indifferent, now if I could see them live I’d be more definitive, oh well.
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS
Album: Burn One Up
Record Label: Roadrunner
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS
Album: Godmoney Soundtrack 
Record Label: V2
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Like, uh, wow. As the common threads holding this Dutch-compiled album together are pot, 70s hard rock sounds, and, um, pot, it’s difficult to tell if the bands on Burn One Up represent some sort of movement, or if it’s just like kismet, man, Subtitled ‘Music For Stoners’ (why be subtle?), the international super sounds of the 70s here include; American offerings from ex-Kyuss man Josh Homme’s Queens Of The Stone Age (also known as Gamma Ray)’. Fu Manchu; Karma To Burn; British day trippers Acrimony; former doom rockers Cathedral (who have undergone metamorphosis and emerged as Black Oak Arkansas); and a bunch of smokin’ Euro unknowns — some quite good too. Sludge rock central, dude. 
On the not-so-slack front, Godmoney collects some across the board punk rock, with a new Descendents track and an unreleased Voodoo Glow Skulls cut reason enough to invite further inspection. Of note, you’ll find Stavesacre (don’t the bv’s sound like Arcwelder?), Stanford Prison Experiment, and Farside. And with the line-up stretching to include the Rollins Band and Dance Hall Crashers, it’s a soundtrack with a more inspired tracklisting than most. 
Artist: SHELTER
Album: Beyond Planet Earth
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By:  GAVIN BERTRAM
Shelter grew out of the New York hardcore scene that viewed CBGBs as the centre of the universe in the 1980s. Vocalist Ray Cappo cut his teeth with Youth Of Today, before making a pilgrimage to India to learn about Krishna. Back to spread the positive message in the best possible way, he finds himself singing for the best melodic punk-style band around. Shelter are more catchy than a thousand miles of barbed wire, mixing in a bit of ska, a touch of hip hop, and a lot of good vibes to spice up the power chords. Porcell (another NYHC veteran) lays down riffs with all the conviction of his beliefs, especially potent on ‘Rejuvenate’, ‘Revealed in Reflection’, and ‘Helpless.’ The latter, along with two other tracks, feature White Zombie’s J Yuenger on guitar, while ‘Alone On My Birthday’ has the brass section of an orchestra. Shelter don’t try to shove their beliefs down your throat, they simply put a positive message in their lyrics, with some of the most upbeat white music you’ll find. Hare hare (just kidding).
Artist: BLUE STINGRAYS
Album: Surf-N-Burn
Record Label: Epitone
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Surf-N-Burn begins with the sound of a needle hitting vinyl, complete with authentic scratches, then lays down 15 surf instrumental tracks of a similar ilk to the Tornadoes. The Blue Stingrays — according to the CD slick — America’s premier surf combo, and are also surf’s answer to the Mummies, blindfolding the engineers to protect their anonymity. They are so dedicated to protecting their artistic integrity that after releasing three albums in the 60s, they retreated to a small island south of Tahiti in order to perfect the ultimate surf sound, returning only to record and release this epitaph to their career and disappear forever. Sounds like bullshit to me, but anyways, with only one cover (‘Goldfinger’) and the balance all originals, the surf tunes aren’t BS even if the PR is, and there’s even vinyl crackle after the last chord fades. Rockin’!
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: Give ’em the Boot
Record Label: Hellcat
Reviewed By: HANS HOEFLICH
Like a fantail that signals the arrival of tiny feet in the Maori culture, the arrival of this ska/punk compilation heralds the arrival of a beautiful summer. As far as this style of compilation goes, quality wise it’s in the upper quarter, but I can’t see it being the social document that This Are Two Tone has become. 
Rancid start things off with a pumping Clash type anthem, ‘The Brothels’, followed by the Hepcats’. soulful ‘Can’t Wait.’ These tunes give you an idea of the two poles on the album; one very up and hard, and the other very up and slick. Give ’em The Boot will live on your stereo because the shit tracks are overshadowed by the sublime ones, and although your life won’t end by not owning this album, its quality will improve. 
Artist: NADIR 
Album: Rust 
Record Label: Independent
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Nelson’s Nadir have followed in the steps of that town’s Daemon by independently releasing their metallic outpourings. Nadir, however, have more in common with the likes of Metallica than Morbid Angel, producing a tight, melodic variety of groove metal. The _ twin guitars of. Nathan Neumann and Rob Lambert chunk tightly together in the Hetfield/Hammett tradition, while the rhythm section is impressive, especially Corey Barnett, whose drumming is easily of an international standard.. Lambert’s vocals are of the warm, mid-range variety, moving between an emotive Vedder wail, and the occasional Hetfield growl. Although at times it’s all too easy to spot the influences, Nadir play with a passion and honesty that transcends their music beyond mere imitation. Rust is another damn fine metal release out of Nelson.
Artist: TOTAL 
Album: Kaspar Hauser 
Record Label: Metonymic
Artist: FLIES INSIDE THE SUN 
Album: Metonymic 002 
Record Label: Metonymic
Reviewed By: Mac Hodge
A new Port Chalmers label to challenge the previous legacy of that small southern outpost, and all things free and noise usually associated with Siltbreeze and other like minded Ameri-non-rocka’s. The formula is simple; hit the guitar/feedback maker, put it too tape and release it in small quantities for global collection, and if you can think up some obscure title for the pieces, all the better too, ’cause then we can call it real pain, real art. Personally, I’m no real connoisseur of such recorded ramblings. Live I've been known to sit through the odd ‘performance’, but will also be the first to admit that it’s never transported me anywhere except into a stupor or out the door. The former I think, is the desired result, and it’s more spiritual if this can be achieved without drugs, but nonetheless, still valid if stimulants are required to endure (whoops enjoy!) the experience. Total are the English exponents of the art form, Flies the local, and to my ears, the superior variety, featuring some fine pedigree and some actual ‘songs.’ By now, you’re either sneering, or nodding in silent agreement, so let's just leave it at that shall we.
Artist: ALCHEMIST 
Album: Spiritech 
Record Label: Thrust
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Alchemist, on first impressions, look like just another bunch of dozy metallers with a fetish for the mystical (but you know what they say about first impressions). Spiritech is the follow up to Lunasphere, and both are great albums of changing atmospheres; twisted trips, and psychedelic adventures. Opener ‘Chinese Whispers’ begins with a huge riff, charges through the screeching Cradle of Filth-like chorus, then into a lengthy keyboard-driven interlude, ending up somewhere around 9 minutes long. Next is ‘Road To Übar’, which ups the magical psilocybin factor, taking conceptual metal to new places. Production-wise and musically, Spiritech is fine mushroom metal for your next trip.
Artist YOKO ONO with PLASTIC ONO BAND 
Album: Fly 
Album: Approximately Infinite Universe
Album: Feeling The Space
Artist: YOKO ONO 
Album: A Story
Record Label: Rykodisc
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Widely perceived and dismissed as an atonal noise-monger lacking even a shred of talent (and worse — she’s the bitch who ruined Lennon and split the Beatles), Yoko Ono’s body of work has long languished in obscurity, condemned as unlistenable by many, and uncritically deified as the apogee of innovation by others; though it’s possible that a large portion of both camps have been too selective or heard too little to make an informed judgement. Time to shatter some preconceptions then. These four albums cover the early 70s period, when Ono did not confine herself to avant-garde experimentalism, but embraced a range of approaches that culminated in these diverse albums. 
The first disc of Fly, a double set from 1971, has much in common with the Plastic Ono Band album that preceded it (and anticipated both punk and new wave); with a dirty, hard rocking grind and groove employed to back Ono’s zen vocalisations; and when the band drops back (most of the second disc), extended pieces exploring tonal landscapes pull the focus firmly onto her trademark glottal self-expression — never self-indulgent, or less than interesting. 
Approximately Infinite Universe is a far more conservative effort musically, with reasonably conventional song structure replacing the wild jams and experimentation. The Plastic Ono Band (in this case, actually Elephant’s Memory) move through suave, soulful rock. On The Corner-era Miles styles, intense pre-new wave, and swinging doo-wop. The lyrics are provocative, frank, fiercely individual and selfaffirming, and Ono’s vocal delivery is energised and full of character throughout this double album. 
Derided at the time, due no doubt to Ono’s political stance, gender and ethnicity, rather than on its own merits, Feeling The Space (1973) still stands as a timeless feminist statement ('Woman Power’ here, not girl power you understand). An entirely coherent and confident collection of songs, there is much quiet introspection, offset by a great, swaggering 70s New York rock feel — though style is somewhat sacrificed, sometimes to considerable substance. 
A Story was recorded during Ono’s I separation from Lennon, and much j material deals with her husband's ; absence. However, it is transcendent : strength, not fragility, that is the i backbone of this album’s subject matter. Lennon’s production input is missed, as the musical focus meanders a little at some points into music-hallish feyness. Overall, it’s the weakest and least adventurous of this reissue quartet, but it’s appearance is welcome as A Story has remained in the vaults until now, and shows a definite evolutionary bridge between developmental stages. 
Ono is a talented and visionary artist, whose albums deserve attention from more than just Beatles completists (who’ll be happy with the previously unavailable home demos with Lennon). If you found Rising or its remixed cousin interesting, there’s much you’ll dig here.