Artist: Valerie Carter 
Album: A Stone’s Throw Away 
Record Label: C.B.S.
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
As far as I am concerned, Valerie Carter has a lot going against her before the needle even hits the vinyl on her debut album. Before hearing her, I had read that she was too mild for an Eagles audience, that she was signed to C.B.S. because some record company executive thought she had a bankable face’, and that so many of the L A. session army played on A Stone's Throw Away, that she couldn't recall one of them even being there. 
Imagine my surprise then, dear reader, to discover that this album is every bit as good as its reputation was fishy. A Stone’s Throw Away may not quite be the album that Little Feat fans everywhere are looking for, but it cuts the latest offerings from both Linda Ronstdt and Bonnie Raitt.
The album starts slowly, with a faithful retread of an old soul near-standard, "Ooh Child", and a rather uncomfortable feeling that this is the way that James Taylor likes to get under way. All such thoughts are dispelled by the truly soulful "Ringing Doorbells in the Rain" a collaboration between Lowell George and someone called Ulv, who is rumoured to be an inmate of a local institution for the insane. From that moment on Valerie Carter is set. 
While the rest of the first side, and much of the second side doesn't quite match those heights, the album’s closer, "Back to Blue Some More" is worth seven dollars on its own. With words by Lowell George, a stunning melody by Ms Carter, and arrangement by William Payne, the song leaves for dead anything on the Feat's Time Loves a Hero.
It’s a sad commentary on the rock and roll world that women like Valerie Carter have to battle to overcome the kind of hype they are landed with in record company promo sheets, and rock magasines. It shouldn’t be a surprise that she has talent, just a shame that we have to be told ‘what a lovely little lady’ she is before we can appreciate it. 
Artist: Eric Carmen 
Album: Boats Against the Current 
Record Label: Arista 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Perhaps it was a bad morning, but I had a fright when I spent two hours yesterday listening to transistor pop.
As production line single after sing-by-number chorus was slapped down, it became harder and harder to tell top 40 material from ad jingles. When it came to Donna Summer's machine written and machine played "Theme from the Deep" I gave up. And for somebody who places a lot of faith in pop music that was worrying.
Meanwhile I’d been pondering on Eric Carmen's Boats Against the Current. First of all, it is clear that Carmen is a top 40 operator and a good one. He has as strong a voice as you are likely to find in a consistent chart scorer. He's expressive, controlled, and just that bit bluesy. He is, further, a convincingly melodic writer and he can afford good studio musicians. In all you’d expect to conclude that this record should stand out as top popular product. 
Well yes it does: but that’s just the point. Eric Carmen's is by nature an imitative talent. Remember people calling the Raspberries the new Beatles because they sounded like the old Beatles? Remember “All by Myself” 's resemblance to Nilsson’s "Without You"? Well, so too with this album. Carmen feeds off established pop styles in exploiting a little of Roger Daltrey, a little of Elton John, a touch of the Beach Boys (Bruce Johnston arranges backing vocals), and custom built West Coast production.
All credit to Eric Carmen’s ability as a blender of styles - and by all means buy the record for songs like "She Did It" and “Love Is All That Matters" - but it’s no hopeful reflection on current levels of innovation that a retrospective talent like this shines so bright. 
Artist: The Chieftains 
Album: Live 
Record Label: Interfusion 
Reviewed By: William Dart
Well, the Chieftains are back with us, even if it is only on record. Those of you who feel deprived at missing their recent New Zealand concerts (and you should) can sample the group's magic on this new album. 
The Chieftains are a seven man group who have a tremendous repertoire of Irish traditional music, played on instruments such as the uilleann pipes, bodhran, tin whistles, fiddles and harp. This live release is their seventh recording, and I would heartily recommend any of their recordings from Chieftains 4 onwards.
In their live album, the group have produced a programme which is very close to their Auckland concert (although this set was recorded in Boston and Toronto). Time obviously did not allow the inclusion of their "Bonaparte's Retreat” a 15 minute suite showing the Russian defeat of Napoleon in 1812.
This album doesn’t tend to duplicate material on other albums, but has many of the highlights of the Auckland concert. The opening number, “Morning Dew" sets the spontaneous atmosphere, with Paddy Moloney suggesting new ideas to the other players during the piece itself. "Round the House but mind the Dresser" is just as jolly a reel as it was in concert, and we also have all the solo items by the various members of the group. 
In way of a digression. In their records the Chieftains usually include quite a few tunes by the blind Irish harpist Carolan (1670-1738). Carolan is a fascinating figure in the history of Irish music, whose beautiful melodies often have more than a hint of Corelli’s influence. There are three Carolan melodies on Chieftains Live, a lively jig, “George Brabazon", “Carolan's Concerto” and a harp solo, “Carolan’s Farewell to Music". The Irish group Planxty have also recorded some of Cardan’s numbers on their albums.
Anyway, back to the Chieftains . . . Chieftains Live is a terrific record, and if you want it, be in quickly. Like all the Chieftains’ records, it is an Australian import and probably won’t turn up in sale bins.
Artist: The Doobie Brothers 
Album: Livin’ On The Fault Line
Record Label: Warner Bros
Reviewed By: John Malloy
You’d wonder how the Doobies can keep the toons coming after seven albums, six of which have cleared a million in sales. The answer is simple; they ain’t the same band any more.
The Doobies that made “Listen to the Music" and “Long Train Runnin’ ”, compulsory standards for every rock band in the country, featured Tom Johnston's songs, voice, and guitar. Since then he has been officially out of the band at various times for health reasons. He was absent from the band at their excellent gig at Auckland. On this album he is credited with guitar and vocals, but his actual influence is minimal.
The man this time is Mike McDonald. His keyboards form the basis of the music, his voice stands out over the super-slick harmonies, and his songs are the high points of the album. "You’re Made That Way", “Nothin’ But a Heartache", and "You Belong to Me” are fine examples of white soul, with McDonald’s intense vocals pushing them well beyond the ordinary. 
Two longstanding Doobies, Pat Simmons and Tiran Porter, also contribute songs. Unfortunately, they detract from the clarity of an otherwise well-made album. The exception is Simmons’ piece, “Larry the Logger Two-step”, which is a great example of short-and-sweet acoustic guitar picking. 
So what you get is an inconsistent set with little resemblance to early Doobies work (which may or may not be a good thing). If you like white soul, you’ll probably like this rather sophisticated and polished album. And if their previous record is anything to go by, they’ll probably rack up another million. 
Artist: Waylon Jennings 
Album: Ol’ Waylon 
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Alan Hunter
The first time I played this record I found myself (not having heard too much of the boy) having to get used to Ol’ Waylon’s sometimes-not-un-Johnny Cash-like-voice. I quickly did and now he just sounds like ol’ Waylon. 
Rah-ooh Waylon!!
At the second playing I had reached the conclusion that, although he included McNeil O’Diamond's "Sweet Caroline”, which incidentally nearly cost him a demerit, there isn’t a bad song on the whole album. Outstanding are: the Jimmy Webb song "If You See Me Getting Smaller”, Buddy Knox's "Think I’m Gonna Kill Myself”, Willis Alan Ramsey’s "Satin Sheets”, "Luckenback Texas”, Jennings own "Belle of the Ball” and . . . Why hell, they’re all great!! 
Viva Waylon!!
By the third time I had been totally enveloped by the not so typical Nashville production (phased guitars and funkboxed bass) and the gently rocking feel of Ol’ Waylons magnificent lil ol’ band, which features ace guitarist Reggie Young (remember Dobie Gray’s Albums) and pedal Steelef Ralph Mooney, Richie Albright - drums, Sherman Hayes - bass, Cliff Robertson - keyboards, with Gordon Payne, Ranee Wassan, John Christopher and Jennings himself taking various guitar playing roles, completing the band. 
I read the other day where someone referred to Disco Music as the "Heartbeat Music”. I'd hate to call this music "Disco Country”. Ugh! But within it there’s a strong pulse and it surely throbs. 
Ole Waylon!! 
Artist: Andy Pratt 
Album: Shiver in the Night
Record Label: Nemperor 
Reviewed By: William Dart
Andy Pratt is one of those oddities of the rock world. To start with he is the progeny of a fairly well-heeled Bostonian family. What's the son of a millionaire doing in the record business anyway? 
His first album, on Polydor, is a most interesting item but did nothing overseas, and wasn't even released here. Lyrics-wise it is Pratt’s strongest album, although the production values are perhaps a little obtrusive.
A change of company brought a song “Avenging Annie", a bold reworking of Woody Guthrie's "Pretty Boy Floyd”. This even almost made it as a single. 
Now Andy is under the Nemperor label and he has mellowed a lot these days. Most of the songs on Shiver in the Dark are fairly straightforward love songs, with fairly straightforward to minimal lyrics. 
Therefore the onus is put on the musical side, and Pratt makes it all right. Listen to "So Faint" as pure music and sound and see what you feel about Pratt's tremulous voice, the fragmented piano, and Arif Mardin's brilliant string writing. 
So many technical niceties in an age where so much is downright crude. The brilliant openings of "Landscape" and "Mama's Getting Love" the latter using only voices and percussion. Andy gets up to'his usual rhythmic tricks in Rainbow" with the repeated line "I got a rainbow in my life".
The three numbers written in collaboration with the other members of his band could actually be called more or less funky, so if you ever wanted to dance to Andy Pratt, these might provide the opportunity.
A pleasant enough album, which I think will improve on repeated listenings. P.S. (A week later). It does! 
Artist: Grateful Dead 
Album: Terrapin Station 
Record Label: Arista 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
The conventional line on the Dead used to be that one needed to see them ‘live’ in order to really feel the magic. Since the band are not known for touring and certainly never venture south of the equator this meant that we antipodeans would always have to rely on a second best their recorded product. And if the early albums smacked of psychedelic constipation, glimmers of the ‘truth’ floated through on the Live Dead and Grateful Dead ’live’ sets. Gradually, however, the band became more studio oriented, starting with the acoustic and vocal-harmony albums and pursued through the multi-layered effects of some of the later works. Now, it seems, they have gone the whole hog and for the first time hired a producer - one Keith Olsen.
Olsen has done a good job. Although the arrangements incorporate synthesizers, strings, brass and, in one instance a choir to give a full sound, he maintains a sense of space in the mix. He has also preserved the band’s essential feeling that, no matter what the pace, things are being taken at ease.
The albums consists of two distinct parts: Side one has a batch of five songs in the normal Dead ouvre, while side two contains a sort-of-suite, "Terrapin Station”. 
First the songs. "Estimated Prophet” is co-composed and sung by Bob Weir and must rank with the Dead’s greatest performances. A superb mellow rocker with quirky lyrics, it may take a few listenings but eventually its melody, shifting rhythm and Garcia’s sinuous wah-wah will haunt you for days on end. 
"Dancing in the Streets” may never threaten Martha and the Vandellas but is a happy summery arrangement with bright percussion. As my friend Lindsay put it, ‘this one is ideal skateboard music.’
"Passenger” has a driving beat with fine unison vocal work that suggests the Dead are gunning for Fleetwood Mac, (or is it Jefferson Starship?). 
The traditional "Samson and Delilah” is given an unusual rhythmic treatment which never quite achieves the lift it needs. It is nonetheless moderately successful. 
Donna Godchaux sings her own ballad "Sunrise” to close side one. While contributing considerable vocal strength to all the previous tracks, here, on her own, she betrays a rather tacky coyness and the grandiloquent arrangement and slight melody don’t help. This lapse in judgement marrs an otherwise worthy set of performances.
“Terrapin Station” on side two is an excursion into the artistically dangerous ground of extended-conceptual performance. As with virtually all the rock attempts at quasi-orchestral ‘suites’ that I’ve heard it doesn’t succeed, lacking the necessary internal musical coherence to make it a unified whole. It does, however, have some impressive, albeit scattered, moments. Definitely the strongest section is its first third which is very competent and more or less orthodox Dead. Significantly, this part, (actually three segments,) is written by the old firm of Garcia and Hunter. From there on things degenerate into pretentiousness and, despite a short, exciting percussion workout and Garcia's only cosmic guitar solo on the album, the side ends as a failure. The finale of a repeated choral singing the word Terrapin’ is simply embarrassing. To be fair, I must admit my bias here: I think the Dead are a fine rock band, when they stick to playing rock. I don’t believe they have any place amongst banks of strings and heavenly choirs. 
So there you have it - an album which runs the full gamut from brilliance to banality. The Dead are now a massive institution and have become so largely on their own terms. They continue to explore new directions according to the dictates of their own very corporate muse. If they sometimes stumble they also ascend higher than many other bands. They are certainly not, as some quarters would have us believe, at a Dead end. 
Artist: Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers
Album: Tom Petty and the Heartbreakers
Record Label: Shelter
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
Rock’n’rolls real heroes are few and hard to find but Tom Petty . . . well, he just looks right. Though, as listening to this album makes immediately obvious, there’s more to this band than good looks.
It was a stroke of genius on somebody’s part to pair Petty's Heartbreakers with Nils Lofgren, giving them the opening spot on Lofgren’s recent UK tour. Lofgren is one of the few rock’n’roll heroes worthy of the title and with Petty he shares a similar stance; that of the punk (in the old sense of the word) who is doing his best, trying to make an honest stand though everything conspires to try and stop him. From all reports it seems that Lofgren was hard-pressed to equal the performances of his show-opener (though I’d like to see Petty do an open backward somersault). 
On their first record Petty and the Heartbreakers have found a near-perfect balance between band and vocalist, neither suffering at the expense of the other. Denny Cordell’s production is simple yet sympathetic and the band work in well with Petty's songs, playing brashly, fast and energetically without sounding too raw. 
But the main strength of this album lies with Petty's vocals. He bites at the words slurs them, runs them one into another: 
Some friends of mine and me 
Stayed up all through the night 
rockin' fairly steady till the sky went light
And didn’t go to bed, didn't go to work 
I picked up the telephone 
Told the boss he was a jerk.
The influences aren’t immediately obvious but, now and again, it’s possible to detect some similarities with the Byrds a jangled guitar line, the chorus vocals on "Hometown Blues", the lead vocal on "American Girl" a song which Roger McGuinn has recently covered. “Mystery Man" has a wonderfully fluid bass line and could almost be a Van Morrison song. But these are Tom Petty’s songs, none more than four minutes long, and while this album has more than its share of songs that I’m sure will eventually be recognised as bona-fide rock ‘n’ roll classics, it’s American Girl" that stands out. Not yet a woman, but dangerous all the same:
Well, she was an American girl 
Raised on promises 
She couldn't help thinking that there 
Was a little more life somewhere else 
After all it was a great big world 
With lots of places to run to .. .
Petty’s tour with Nils Lofgren launched the Heartbreakers into headlining status virtually overnight. And, though I’m not sure that Bob Seger’s “Rock’n’Roll Never Forgets" isn’t just determined optimism considering the years in which Seger has had to work the pits to get where he is now, it is nice when rock’n’roll remembers.
Artist: Graham Parker 
Album: Howlin’ Wind 
Record Label: Vertigo 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Reviewing records is dead simple really. If it is a debut record, you can say whatever the hell you like, because nobody has heard enough of the artist to be able to call down too much wrath on you. If it is a second record, it is either an advance or a disappointment compared with its predecessor about which there is a generally-accepted theory of worth anyway. If it is a third record or more, then the artist is by definition an old fogey, and is fair game. 
Dead simple. 
All this falls apart, however, in the face of the vagaries of the local record business’ policies on release. In the case of Graham Parker, for example, New Zealand first encountered his second album, and only now do we have the chance of hearing its predecessor. Where does that leave the Stark system then? 
After hearing Howlin' Wind, I now know all the things I should have been saying at parties about Heat Treatment. In fact, it is not a carbon copy of the second album so much as a first draft.
It is almost possible to match up the two records track for track - “White Honey” with “Heat Treatment”; “Nothing’s Gonna Pull Us Apart" with “That’s What They AMI Say" and so on, the only difference being that the Rumour, interestingly not given equal billing on Howlin' Wind, seem to have mastered the style much better by the second time around. The record still has all the Parker trademarks, enormous energy, streetwise lyrics and suspiciously familiar melodies. It is just less confident in its working out of those elements than Heat Treatment.
Let me put it this way. If you know about Graham Parker, but don’t own any of his records, buy Heat Treatment. If you have Heat Treatment and your neighbours are getting sick of hearing it ten times a day, buy Howling’ Wind. If you haven't heard of Graham Parker, gently return your head to the sand. 
Dead simple.
Artist: The Gregg Allman Band 
Album: Playin’ Up A Storm
Record Label: Capricorn 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
In all the furore a few years back over Southern rock and the Allman Brothers Band, Gregg Allman always got forgotten. In a band that became known for lengthy guitar work-outs, he was the guy who held down the droning organ chords. He was the singer certainly, but nobody seemed to attach much importance to that, and he was more often mocked for the drawling southern inflection of his vocals.
Well, Gregg Alman’s just weighed in with his second solo album and I'm prepared to stick my neck out and call it the best Allman Brother's associated project since Brothers and Sisters. Gregg's first solo album, Laid Back, was a patchy affair part of it was very fine, but at least half of it was marred by ponderous orchestral arrangements. Playing Up A Storm continues tinues the use of strings and horns but, under the expert direction of ace West Coast producers Lenny Waronker and Russ Titelman, the arrangements play a more subsidiary and more successful role.
Indeed, for a band that contains three guitarists, the most surprising aspect of the album is the tasteful and discriminating way they're used. On the whole the album is dominated by piano. Gregg being no threat to Chick Corea for digital dexterity at the keyboards, he’s hired a piano player by the name of Neil Larsen to handle the tricky bits. He comes out of the same school of blues orientated piano players as ex-Allmans' ChuckLeavell, and is equally as tasteful and effective.


If forced to classify the album, I’d say it was a blues album for the ’70’s. It isn’t an elpee full of 12 bars but from the opener, a re-working of the Brother and Sisters’ track "Come and Go Blues”, through to the revived Ray Charles' song “Brightest Smile in Town”, the blues shine through. The title, Playin' Up A Storm , is deceptive for energetic it isn’t, and it may well be too laid back for some. But Allman shows a sure sense of his roots and also of how to achieve his ends, and that’s better than a thousand and one half-pie country-blues-rock fusion bands.
Artist: Steve Winwood 
Album: Steve Winwood 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
I guess I am biased because I have always liked Steve Winwood, right since his teenage days with the Spencer Davis Group. Basically it’s his distinctive sound that appeals so much - that blend of rhythm and blues, jazz influences, rock, and 60s soul. His singing convincingly employs the phrasing, pitch and timbre of black vocal styles, wedded to white rock. Furthermore his prowess extends to keyboards and guitar. Throughout his career Winwood has usually shown a solid sense of accepting his technical limitations, working within a scope that paradoxically has allowed him to expand his musical horizons. If Blind Faith was never more than the bare bones of a very promising group, some of Traffic's best moments are supreme examples of rock’s greatness as an eclectic musical form.
Apart from the mixed success of Stomu Yamashta’s Go last year, this album represents Winwood's first recorded work since Traffic folded three years ago. It is also his first solo L.P. (although the Traffic classic John Barleycorn was originally intended as such). On one track Winwood plays all instruments, while on the other five he handles vocals, assorted keyboards and virtually all His musical sense is consistently sound. The arrangements are impressive, his soloing sure, and the vocals as warm as ever.
Bass and drums are respectively supplied by the famed soul duo, Willie Weeks and Andy Newmark (Remember Bowie's Young Americans). They are something of a mixed blessing. To their credit they provide the buoyant, flowing pulse behind Winwood that he needs. Traffic's rhythm section had become stodgy towards the end, often clogging up the songs till they sounded static. Weeks and Newmark move. (Listen to Traffic’s Where the Eagle Flies and this L.P. back to back. The difference is obvious.) In providing this rhythmic lift however, the duo do tend to sound a mite formulaic, particularly behind Winwood’s instrumental solos where they don’t seem to be listening too hard. It suggests either a lack of musical commitment or, perhaps, that the rhythm tracks were recorded at an earlier date than the rest.
Ironically, the most sympathetic drumming is on a track not using Newmark, viz "Vacant Chair”.
None of the material is in itself particularly notable; after playing the record constantly for a week I can remember only melodic fragments rather than tunes. This is not an adverse criticism however because they admirably succeed in their purpose as a vehicle for Winwood's stimulating musical gifts. The numbers are all at least co-written by Winwood; his lyricist is usually ex-Traffic-controller Jim Capaldi and in one instance that bizarre gent Viv Stanshall. Capaldi’s words are overambitious and quite forgetable, so don’t strain for them; simply enjoy the rich emotive singing. 
Finally, as expected, it is the Winwood sound that makes this album the success it is. In a musical field particularly prone to fashion - be it disco, punk, or whatever - Winwood eschews current whims and has made an album that is at once up-to-date, yet reaffirms his original musical values. To me, this record is a propitious omen that Steve Weinwood is still a vital musical force. Welcome back.
Artist: Dolly Parton 
Album: New Harvest . . . First Gathering 
Record Label: RCA
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
If you’ve ever seen Dolly Parton you’ll know she’s a remarkable anthropoid. She’s the sort of girl Opie Girffiths might have a crush on. Rumour has it that she stands a foot higher than her due when she dons wig and heels and then there’s the all American bosom . . .
If you’ve ever heard Dolly Parton you’ll know that she’s a remarkable musician. Hereabouts she is an unaccountably obscure performer. I think I've only heard Dolly thrice on local radio. But in the States she has become a cause celebre. Devotees Maria Muldaur and Emmy-Lou Harris think the sun shines out of her bouffant, as do a hard core country following. Emmy-Lou calls her "one of the great writers . . . and one of the great singers of the generation” and Muldaur talks of "one of the really great voices issued to a human being”.
 Yet Dolly Parton has never been a great seller outside the country belt. That fact she seeks to modify with her latest and more populist recording, New Harvest . . .First Gathering. 
Ironically, in doing so, Dolly risks the displeasure of hitherto devoted fans. In turning her talents to more popular forms, including a soul number by Smokey Robinson and gospel-rock of her own like “Holdin' on to You”, she takes her chances outside the strict confines of her Nashville market.
Dolly Parton is gunning for a less esoteric audience. Her song writing prowess is being turned to pop, her voice to a synthesis of country, soul and hit parade. 
Horrors, you might say, another Olivia Newton John. Absolutely not. 
When Dolly Parton says "I don’t want to leave the country but to take the country with me,” she speaks with the self assurance of her most sentimental lyrics. And genuine sentiment is one of Dolly Parton's absolute strengths. When she talks about roots you believe it. 
The proof is on New Harvest . . . First Gathering for, in spite of the updated backing, most tracks are palpably country, and all are strong.-“ Light of a Clear Blue Morning” is as direct a statement as the songstress has made.


There is a real danger that in the pop arena Parton's country emotion might degenerate into saccharin. Once or twice this album comes perilously close to doing that. But Dolly’s ability to work on a song and set it steaming saves the day. Even the breathy production job "You Are” surfaces through its mushy backing. And when she opens out as on "Getting My Way” one begins to think that Muldaur doesn't exaggerate in her praise.
If you’re a Dolly Parton fan and a country purist then, apart from being a very rare creature indeed, you may have to readjust to Dolly in commercial voice. Make the effort. If Dolly Parton is just a name to you, get investigating.