Artist: Velvet Underground 
Album: Loaded 
Record Label: Cotillion 
Artist: Lou Reed 
Album: Walk on the Wild Side 
Record Label: RCA 
Artist: Lou Reed 
Album: Rock and Roll Heart 
Record Label: Arista 
Reviewed By: William Dart
Why shouldn't there be all that crap for kids? Nobody's making you buy it. There's plenty of attention for everything. Besides, I've always had somewhat patrician taste. I've worked so much. I've earned the right to be awful. They've got a head start. 
Lou Reed on punk rock. The master of cynico-minimo-rock himself commenting on would be competition. All the Reedian characteristics are here the - flipness (“I’ve always had somewhat patrician taste"), as well as the camp “I’ve earned the right to be awful”). Add to all this a dash of Dada and a pinch of Warholian minimism and’ what do you have - a Lou Reed. 
Three records are now out which show three different phases of Reed's work. The first is the 1971 Velvet Underground album Loaded (Cotillion). This was the last album that the group released with Reed amongst its personnel, excluding the later ‘posthumous’ live albums. 
Loaded has material which is still near enough to Reed’s contemporary style for him to include on his current concert programmes — Sweet Jane being an obvious example. Some of the songs seem just a little ineffectual, but that is sometimes part of the Velvet’s rather casual-sounding style. “Who Loves the Sun” is a lovely pop song, Beatles harmonies and all, and contrasts strongly with “Sweet Jane” and “Rock and Roll” which are quintessential Reed, screaming out for a machismo live performance. 
Reed’s Solo career started with a bang in the early seventies, right in the middle of the rising Gay Consciousness. Green finger-nail polish, drag, where would it all end? Reed’s second album, Transformer even had a young man with a rather stunning credential on its back cover. Just as monstrous as the young man’s credential was the song “Walk on the Wild Side” which was a big hit for Lou. It was a typical Reed song in its cataloguing of the seamier sides of the side, a sort of corollary to Nico’s “Chelsea Girls”. 
R.C.A. have titled their new compilation disc of the best of Lou Reed, Walk on the Wild Side and it is a rather super slice of the singer. As well as the title track we have such decadent lovelies as “New York Telephone Conversation” - one minute plus of breathless campy trivia. There is my favorite Reed song, “Satellite of Love” as well as live versions of “Sweet Jane" and “White Light White Heat” - both old Velvet songs. Add to this "Wild Child", “Sally Can’t Dance” and “Coney Island Baby” and what do you have - a helluva lot of good ole decadence for your $7.99 
Lou's latest offering is on Arista and has the delightful title of Rock and Roll Heart - the significance of this title is explained in the song: 
I don't like opera and I don't like ballet 
And new wave French movies they just drive me away 
I guess that I'm dumb cause I know I ain’t smart 
But deep down inside I got a rock and roll heart. 
The cover shows Reed in a blotchy television exposure, a brilliant visual image for the sound he seems to be aiming at. A deliberately fuzzy sound with lots of distorted guitar and organ whilst he intones his visions of our sinking Western culture. Even when he gives us his version of tongue-in-cheek raunch in “I Believe in Love” he cannot resist a little dash of decadence: 
I believe in good times now 
And I belive it shows 
And I believe in the Iron Cross 
And as everybody knows 
I believe in good time music 
Good time rock and roll. 
Hard to imagine Adolf Hilter and Chuck Berry as locker room buddies Even more cyncial is Lou's concept of a “Sheltered Life”, replete with a rather jazzy backing: 
Never been to England 
Never been to France Never really learned how to dance 
I’ve never taken dope 
And I’ve never taken drugs. . . . 
And when Lou is exercising his “Right to be awful” as in the repeated title line of “Banging on My Drum”, he really gives us a two minute equivalent of Warhol’s seven hour Empire State Building epic. 
A snazzy little album this. Now a word from Auntie Rotter. Kiddies, when Mummy is busy watching The Young and the Restless sneak in and make off with her little bottle of valiums. If you sell 32 of these at 50 cents each to your little playmates with well-adjusted mummies, you will be able to buy Walk on the Wild Side and Rock and Roll Heart. With two cents left for a wine gum.
Artist: Mother Goose
Album: Stuffed
Record Label: Mushroom
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
Kee-rist! . another bunch of loonies from New Zealand. That's what the world's going to say, as the Aussies cast furtive glances in this direction to see who's coming their way next and how crazy they look. 
Over the last couple of years Mother Goose have plied their steadily evolving music and appealingly loopy group image around much of New Zealand, and latterly with more success in Australia where they recently recorded this album.
A keen sense of the absurd is a valuable asset for any rock band and it’s of the essence in what you might call Mother Goose's collective vision. However it would quickly wear thin if it weren't for the band's abilities as a musical unit. That's at the heart of the matter when considering their potential to survive because on the surface their image is very lightweight and contrived, and without the secure foothold of some very solid pop music they would have floated away to toytown on a cotton wool cloud by now. 
As a band they've walked a fine line with the pitfalls of terminal cuteness and rampant eclecticism on either side. The good news is that in the cold light of vinyl they continue to walk the line better than many folk might have anticipated, although it remains a thin one.
Well-absorbed lessons in rock dynamics and a freshness and originaltiy that reveal a "genuine love and talent for pop are all exhibited to varying degrees on STUFFED. These guys sound as if they're close to the music and get a big kick out of it themselves, that's not so common.
Pop virtues abound . . . the music is fun, the guitars are aggressive and lyrical, the arrangements are inventive and the grabbag of studio effects is intelligently used. Craig Johnston's vocals do well by the material, which is all original and the plaintive quality of his voice contrasts effectively with the instrumental drama of a song like "Last Of The Fools.'’
My favourite track is just about the simplest and shortest on the album. Tucked away on side two between a couple of numbers that are the closest Mother Goose come to heavy metal, lies "Only You". Lyrically it's a better than average little song about being a rock band and it's brought to life by a brilliantly sung chorus reminiscent of Badfinger's best. This is sustained through the guitar passage into a final chorus that's a highlight of the album. 
Stuffed doesn't strive for profundity, the title alone tells us that, but it succeeds as a well-crafted and entertaining record of what one of our finest bands has achieved to date. 
I don't like the cover though.
Artist: Be-Bop Deluxe 
Album: Live! In the Air Age 
Record Label: Harvest
Reviewed By: Jeremy Tempter
f’ve lost count of the number of live albums, most of them double albums, released since Peter Frampton made it the trend. And why should I care? Most live albums are no more than lightly disguised attempts to recycle old material. And I'm sick of hearing live recordings which have been meticulously edited and overdubbed to the point where you wouldn't know them from the studio originals if it wasn't for the applause at the end of each song.
A live album should be able to tell more about the artist than you would learn from the clinical professionalism of half a dozen studio albums. Above all it should be true to the original concert or concerts. It should include the bum notes, the semiintelligible introductions, and the false starts.
Even these days Jackson Browne probably sleeps uneasily knowing that the bootleg album The Return of the Common Man shows just how sloppy he was at that Pennsylvania concert in 1975. But he really shouldn't worry; he's a little more human because of it.
Though Bill Nelson, lead guitarist and songwriter for Be-Bop Deluxe, makes no pretence to be human. This is the age of the machine. And that's why Live! In the Air Age almost succeeds, despite the odds. 
Live! In the Air Age is completely professional, no notes missed, as close to the original studio recordings as possible but without the final polish. With a bonus EP, a bonus of four new songs and none from Axe Victim or Modern Music. Nothing to say where the album was recorded although it's probably safe to assume the recordings are from concerts on tour in the States. 
Modern Music may have only slowed Bill Nelson's rush to imminent fame but it's also going to take more than Live! In the Air Age to recapture interest. And it's sad but true that most live albums, this one included, are seen as the next obvious move only because it is the artist who is marking time, not the audience. 
Album: A Bunch Of Stiffs
Record Label: Stiff Records
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Stiff records are an independent British record company who not only don't believe that the sixties never died, they don’t even believe they faded away. Their anachronistic attitude is typified by the slogan displayed on the cover - "Undertakers to the Industry - If they’re Dead We’ll sign Them”. What can you say to honesty like that?
But fear not, this is not a bunch of dull has beens on a bunch of even duller retreads. Nope, this is just a bunch of seventies kids with their feet firmly rooted in sixties pop, and R&B. Noticeably the most successful tracks here weld their nostalgic tendencies to a firmly seventies feel in lyrics and approach. Which brings us to the one unabashed classic contained herein. It’s Elvis Costello and "Less Than Zero". A song about Britain's fascist leader of the thirties Oswald Moseley, of course. What more logical subject for a pop-calypso song? 
But sprinkled throughout the album are several minor delights, that more than repay the price of admission. There's The Takaways amazingly accurate Dylan takeoff, “Food"; The Tyla Gang's New York take "The Young Lords", Dave Edmund’s crazy version of Chuck Berry's "Jo Jo Gunne" and tucked away at the end of Side One and uncredited on the sleeve, is Graham Parker and the Rumour with an alternative version of "Back to Schooldays" to the one found on Howlin’ Wind.
A set that allows you to reverse into tomorrow today. Yesterday’s Sound Today as Phil Spector might say.
Artist: Sandford and Townsend 
Album: Smoke from a Distant Fire 
Record Label: Warner Brothers
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Time was when a debut record with the technical quality of Smoke from a Distant Fire would have attracted immediate attention. As it is, it seems to shuffle along in the current herd of immaculately produced West Coast material.
That anyway was the attitude of the buying public when Smoke from a Distant Fire was first released overseas. Since then the excellent title single has done business for Sanford/Townshend, so the album is rereleased.
It deserves re-appraisal. Closer perusal shows, for example, that the album is recorded at Muscle Shoals, Alabama, not in L.A. And there is more musical meat to songs and arrangements than an average West Coast band like Firefall can muster. 
Sanford/Townshend’s style is derivative - early Steely Dan, Allen Toussaint, believe it or not Elton John, came through strongly, but John Townshend's strong voice, a very good band, Otis Hale's sax playing, and punchy songs render a certain distinction.
The patchiness of the lyric quality, and its general smoothness disqualify Smoke from a Distant Fire from a major place in recording annals. New wave it isn't. But it's an attractive second-hand wave. Maybe nostalgia is on its side. 
Artist: Linda Ronstadt 
Album: Simple Dreams 
Record Label: Asylum
Reviewed By: William Dart
W E.A certainly seems to have a monopoly on the lady singers these days. For your poetry there's Joni, for your classy camp there’s Bette, and for your good old eclectic quality stuff there's Maria Muldaur and Linda Ronstadt. And when I say eclectic I mean eclectic because this Ronstadt girl even sang on Carla Bley's Escalator over the Hill. But Carla Bley and Top 40 are um, well let's say they’re just poles apart. So perhaps that's why we know Ronstadt mainly for her more mainstream musical activities.
Simple Dreams has some really lovely moments. For those who liked her “That’ll Be the Day", there's another Buddy Holly number, ‘lt’s So Easy’. The other two tracks which approach the raunch are Warren Zevon’s “Poor Poor Pitiful Me" and her version of the Stones' “Tumbling Dice”. And when Linda has an opening line like “People try to rape me” it just sounds a little more believable than when the divine Mick himself rasps it at his audience. 
Rolling Stone mag seems to criticise the predominance of softer ballads, but they do admit that Ronstadt deals with them superbly. And, after all, I think a lot of Ronstadt followers will prefer this approach. The single from the album is (I think) “Blue Bayou”, a reworking of the old Roy Orbison number. Linda transforms it into a rather beautiful experience, all shimmering and undulating sound. It has the same sort of feel as Maria Muldaur's "Sad Eyes”. The stuff indeed that dreams are made of.
Other highlights: A very beautiful duet with Dolly Parton on the traditional “I Never Will Marry”, and a final "Old Paint" with some of the most subdued and subtle dobro works from Mike Auldridge that I have ever heard.
Like Maria Muldaur, Ronstadt is just the singer to do your reputation a lot of good if she tackles your songs. After listening to her version of J. D. Souther’s "Simple Man, Simple Dream”, I am finding myself digging out an old Souther record to listen to the man himself.
Simply Ronstadt, simply dreamy 
Artist: Sandy Denny 
Album: Rendezvous Island
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Sandy Denny always has had one of those voices. Despite the charms of Full House, Fairport Convention was never half the band without her. On the evidence of Rendezvous, however, she may need Fairport Convention every bit as much as they need her.
In many respects, Rendezvous is typical of the genre. It is hard to name an English folk-rock album which does not feature one or many of Dave Mattacks, Jerry Donahue, Pat Donaldson or Dave Pegg. Where the album differs is in its use of weighty string arrangements to cover the impeccable playing of these musicians. Ostensibly, this seems intended to mark the maturity of Denny as a singer; not just a folk singer, but somebody who can get up there and belt out a cover version of “Candle in the Wind” with the best of them. 
There is no doubt that she has the vocal ability to do - it her version of “Candle in the Wind” is a hell of a lot better than Helen Reddy could manage in her wildest dreams. The question that remains is, why? 
Just as on her previous three solo albums and the truly great “Fotheringay” album, she proves here that she is a songwriter to be reckoned with, and the Fairport mafia, assisted by Richard Thompson, certainly do her justice. It is not as though she and husband/producer Trevor Lucas have whole heartly embraced the attractions of the middle of the road. Rather they seem to have struck to the hedge. 
It is, in fact, a song by Richard Thompson which best illustrates the shortcomings of this approach. “I Wish I Was a Fool for You Again” opens the album and, while Denny comes close to matching the aching original vocal by Linda Thompson, the decision to take the song at half pace and to bury it beneath a huge, echoed tambourine orchestra and a banal vocal arrangement leaves the listener hoping for a taste of the spare grace of Ms Thompson’s version. 
All is not grim, however. On many tracks like “One Way Donkey Ride” and the vaguely Mitchellesque, “Gold Dust”, Sandy Denny proves she can write and sing as well as ever, just as her cohorts are still in the top league. It is in the control room that this record falters, and even if you have got one of those voices, you can’t compete with production.
Artist: Bob Johnson and Peter Knight 
Album: The King of Elfland’s Daughter 
Record Label: Chrysalis
Reviewed By: William Dart
Chrysalis have one of the best track records (ouch! no pun intended) with the electric folk thing. Let's face it, they have Steeleye Span on their books, and the members of that group have had various individual projects of note. Maddy Prior's Silly Sisters album with June Tabor was one that I had to travel to Hamilton to catch up with.
Bob Johnson and Peter Knight are two S.S. men and this record, The King of Elfland’s Daughter, represents their personal project. It is a concept album based on the book by Lord Dunsay, telling a tangled plot of the King of Elfland (Christopher Lee), his daughter (Mary Hopkin), a handsome young hero (Frankie Miller), a wicked witch (P.P. Arnold) and a troll (Alexis Korner).
There is a very English feyness to the whole album that many Kiwis will find hard to take. Perhaps Hello Sailor might try a concept album based on the drawings of Trevor Lloyd? And Christopher Lee's commentary between the songs does rather force one to accept it as a total album. This was perhaps a mistake as the record could have functioned just as well with the plot being either explained in the songs, or on the liner notes. 
Are the voices really what one expects? Well, Frankie Miller sounds a little out of keeping with the rest. And perhaps the different voices add to the confusion of the record. After all Tommy survived very well with the basic Who sound throughout. Perhaps the whole album may have been more successful as a Steeleye Span concept? As Johnson and Knight do not seem to be songsmiths of the first order, some traditional melodies could possibly have been used to advantage. 
It is super though to see Mary Hopkin back on vinyl. Sad to think all she does nowadays is the occasional single and backing vocals (e g. on Bowie’s Low). 
The only rider that I could add is that with the paucity of intelligent children’s records around, this could appeal strongly to imaginative under-12’s, so it might pay parents and primary teachers who read Rip It Up to check this record out.
Artist: Various
Album: New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival Various Artists 1976 
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
The New Orleans Jazz & Heritage Festival is an annual event, commemorating the best of New Orleans’ varied musical past and giving promise of the future. This double album concentrates on the rhythm and blues aspect of the festival, and it’s extraordinarily fine. 
The best music comes from the king of the Crescent City studios, Allen Toussaint, who gets a whole side to run through insistent versions of some of his best songs ("High Life', "Play Something Sweet (Brickyard Blues)", "Freedom for the Stallion"). Toussaint’s influence isn’t confined to his own performance, however. Lee Dorsey does the Toussaint-penned "Workin' in a Coal Mine" and "Holy Cow" and Ernie K-Doe has a fitful stab at recreating his 1961 hit "Mother-in-Law", also a Toussaint composition.
K-Doe and Robert Parker turn in performances well below the standard set by their classic 60s singles, "Mother-in-Law" and "Barefootin’ ” respectively, but the other artists acquit themselves admirably. Irma Thomas is in fine, strident form on "You can have my husband, but please don’t mess with my man” and Texas bluesman Lightnin’ Hopkins offers three of the most exciting performances of his long (and perhaps over-recorded) career.
The final two tracks are left to the man credited with inspiring New Orleans pianists from Fats Domino, through Toussaint to Dr John, and they're a revelation. Professor Longhair, dubbed by Toussaint "The Bach of Rock," was 57 at the time “Tipitina” and "Mardi Gras in New Orleans" were recorded, but he could well be 157, so ghostly and eccentric is his piano and vocal style.
Toussaint opens this immensely enjoyable album with solid 70s rock; it seems appropriate that it should be left to Professor Longhair to ring down the curtain with an eerie breath of swamp wind. 
Artist: The Rolling Stones 
Album: Love You Live 
Record Label: Rolling Stones Records
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
This on-again off-again live album finally delivers the promise of years. The Rolling Stones at their live best, giving full force to that greatest rock and roll band in the world" reputation. 
Four sides is usually a bit much to take in at one time with any artist. With this album I just wanted to press on. Anyone who has seen the Stones, and/or heard bootlegs of their concerts, knows only too well that they have off nights. They can be sloppy and out of tune; and. in some ways, that is the Stones. But when they're on they can be sloppy and out of tune and great. And that's what this album is all about.
Sometimes the rhythm section is stumbling behind (they're all over the place in "Tumbling Dice"), and most of the time the sound is the sort of blur concerts used to be before all that PA.
In some ways the whole album is a bit like those early ones, The Rolling Stones, 12x5, Out of Our Heads; it has that twotrack R&B distortion that Kpith Richard actively campaigns for. It's an affirmation of those rhythm n' blues roots. The frenetic cacophony of “Around and Around” shows that maybe the Crawdaddy Club is not so distant a memory for the Stones. 
Three sides of the album are from Paris concerts, the fourth the celebrated Toronto club recording, the “El Mocambo side." The concert material is the Stones at their hottest, from Honky Tonk Woman" through to the encore of “Sympathy for the Devil", The material has all been recorded before, but the arrangements are, in most cases, new. The addition of Ron Wood gives the group added punch, a sort of shadow Keith Richard.
But it's the club recordings that bear repeated listening. The intimate situation provides the basis for the more electric music. Two numbers here haven’t been recorded before by the Stones. Muddy Waters’ “Mannish Boy” and Bo Diddley’s reggaed “Crackin Up”. The others are “Little Red Rooster” (two slide guitars going here) and Chuck Berry’s “Around and Around”. To me, the club material has the overwhelming excitement of the first time I heard “Route 66”. opening song on that first album. The whole record jumps in a way that their previous "official" live album, Get Yer Ya-Ya's Out, seldom achieved. It's no step forward, rather it's a statement of what they are and where they're from. Solid rocking. And maybe the rest of those Toronto tapes will find their way on to vinyl . . .
Artist: Steely Dan 
Album: Aja 
Record Label: ABC
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
From the outset, with Can't Buy a Thrill, Steely Dan have attracted audiences of distinctly differing tastes. Rockers would boost the volume on “Change of the Guard" while more languid souls praised the smoochy cha-chas. So it went on, reelin' in the albums, as Becker and Fagan's writing embraced styles from pop to be-bop. (A friend dislikes precisely the tracks which are my favourites, and vice-versa.) Gradually however, a more unified approach began to take shape; that blending of rock rhythms with jazz harmonic sophistication which has produced such delights as "Kid Charlemagne". 
Now, Aja signifies further development. It is a considerably more relaxed album than Royal Scam , as if witness to a greater ease and confidence in the emergent style. Although the pieces generally run to longer times than previously the title track is eight minutes there is never any slackness, despite extensive instrumental soloing.
The musicianship shows a restraint that belies its skill. The horn charts, for example, are more discreet than those on Scam yet more effective for their subtlety. Becker and Fagen have stated that Steely Dan is 'more a concept than a rock band.' Although they still write the material and Fagen sings lead, instrumentally they have become merely two of two dozen session men. But what session men. As usual, nearly all are ‘names' in their own right and play here with consummate taste.
The lyrics are typically elliptical, not to say obscure. While Scam turned on a theme of urban decadence, I'm not sure whether Aja has any such unifying motif . . . but I'm working on it. William Burroughs did write that ‘Steely Dan lII' came from Yokohama; Fagen does sing that ‘Chinese music always sets me free'; ‘Aja' is pronounced ‘Asia', and there's the cover photo ... Oriental inscrutability perhaps, or just my pretzel logic? 
Seriously though folks, this is one of my favourite albums this year. If you expected Steely Dan to develop as hard rockers you may be disappointed, so stick with Katy Lied. If, however, you enjoy their mellow side Aja will convince you that Steely Dan are still the best nongroup around.
Artist: Thin Lizzy 
Album: Bad Reputation 
Record Label: Vertigo
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Now, I'm no fan of Heavy Metal music. That has to be said. But I love Thin Lizzy. Indeed I'd rate them as one of the premier bands at this moment cos for my money they contain more than a few extra added attractions that put them way above the standard of your average bunch of guitar thrashers. For one, they have Phil Lynott. A black Irishman, Lynott is not only a great singer but an even better songwriter, a rare animal in most HM product. Added to this they have a dynamite pair of guitarists in Scott Gorham and Brian Robertson, who can not only sustain the expected guitar posturing but also manage to inject enough in the way of variety and dynamics to prevent the all out attack from lapsing into a cliched rifferama. And it’s because of this sense of dynamics that tedium rarely, if ever, sets in.
At their best, as on the Jailbreak set of a couple of years ago, Thin Lizzy is a stunning combination of all these factors. What's more, they managed to sustain this standard on last year's Johnny the Fox, which was only marred by the last track on Side Two, “Boogie Woogie Dance,” a throwaway piece if ever there was one.
Bad Reputation, their latest, represents a departure in several respects. They’ve switched producers from John Alcock who was responsible for the last two albums, to Tony Visconti who’s well-known for his work with Bowie, Bolan and others. At the same time, Lynott has traded in his penchant for lyrics on love and kids on the street for an attack on the big subjects in “Soldier of Fortune” and “Dear Lord”. Now I don’t mind that, but allied to the more sophisticated production job, it’s resulted in arrangements that are marred by their over-literalness. That’s to say, “Soldier” gets an arrangement complete with military drumbeat in the bridge, while “Dear Lord” has, yes you guessed it, a heavenly chorus courtesy of Mary Hopkin, who you have to admit always was a little bit angelic and ethereal.
In fact it's a credit to Lizzy’s cutting edge that these elements grate as little as they do. And they are, after all, only minor aberrations on an album that overall maintains the band's amazingly high standard. For instance, there’s the snappy single, “Dancin’ in the Moonlight", which is reminiscent of Springsteen’s “Spirit in the Night”, (but that’s a compliment), a couple of great rockers in “Bad Reputation” and “That Woman’s Gonna Break Your Heart” and two of Lynott’s finest songs yet in “Southbound" and “Downtown Sundown”.
An album then that can only reward the attention of the growing number of Lizzy fans and perhaps by virtue of it’s more sophisticated production sound, it’ll seduce some new listeners into the fold. But I vote for a return to the basics next time. O.K. Phil?
Artist: Blondie
Album: Blondie
Record Label: Chrysalis Records
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
It’s the influence of Richard Gottehrer (co-writer of "My Boyfriend’s Back", producer for the McCoys) that makes Blondie’s debut album more old wave than new, more like '60s nostalgia for the ’70s audience. Blondie is a New York group from CBGB's; Gottehrer is the producer of this, their first album. The song titles (“X Offender”, “Rip Her to Shreds”) suggest something of the aggressive and raw sound Blondie are said to have in concert but on record the songs are tempered by Gottehrer’s ’6os approach; altogether too cute question and answer choruses with occasional handclaps and finger snaps. To be honest, Gottehrer is only exaggerating the essential character of the band; vocalist Debbie Harry recalls the Shangri-Las, the Ronettes and the Chiffons; keyboard player James Destri seems bent on reviving the Farfisa; drummer Clement Burke adds perhaps too many drum rolls and the group even looks the part. And his songs are all between two to three an a half minutes long. 
All this would be too much were it not for the sexuality and bitchiness of Debbie Harry, the blond in Blondie, and the underlying aggressiveness of songs such as “Rip Her to Shreds” (“She looks like the Sunday comics”) coupled with the band’s apparent good humour ("The Attack of the Giant Ants”, a parody of cheap sci-fi flicks). Which makes Blondie’s first album good, not great. And a lot of fun.
Artist: Kiss
Album: Love Gun
Record Label: Casablanca
Reviewed By: Mike Chunn
On browsing through a selection of children’s records at the Mangere kindergarten, I came across what appears to be the latest offering from a talented foursome of actors in the States going by the collective name Ssik. Based on the Warren comic strips, the record is an original rock opera that tells the story of four uglies from an underground garage that menace eardrums, entice eyeballs and make a lot of money.
The opera is essentially a social comment epic designed to express, in a childish medium, the steady decline of todays living standards, inflation, the upsurge of suburban depression in the home and other relatedsociological elements of life in developed countries. Of course for your average 12 year old all this is incredibly boring so Ssik portray these topics with incredibly boring music. The effect is as one would expect mass boredom. 
The rest of the opera spells out a numbing plot, describing tortuous journeys through fantastic situations and yet as in the first song, echoing a continual, monotonous drivel. Absolutely effective. Incredible. And then of course there’s the climax; the apex of satisfaction and pinnacle of relief. The end.