Artist: The Staples
Album: Family Tree 
Record Label: Warner Bros
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
Pop Staples and his three daughters are now known as the Staples. Before the albums Let's Do It Again and Pass It On (both produced by Curtis Mayfield) they were known as the Staple Singers. Then they were recording primarily gospel or social issue songs such as "I’ll Take You There", “Respect Yourself’’ or "Washington We’re Watching You”. 
Mayfield's songs and production focused primarily on the expressive ability of Mavis Staples, the lead singer. Their new album Family Tree returns to a more familiar Staples Sound. Once again Pop is heard and Cleo and Yvonne are up-front of the mix with Mavis. The one track featuring Mavis alone, is disappointing. 
Eugene Record’s production on Family Tree, featuring strong vocal and rhythm tracks captures the energy in the Staples performance. “Boogie For The Blues” and “Let s Go To The Disco”, two of the best songs on Family Tree are written by Aretha's sister, Carolyn Franklin. “Let’s Go To The Disco” has the fastest bass line in town and the strings make Van McCoy sound plain. 
Nowadays, the Staples message may not be very substantial, but the sound is still good. Even their social issue lyrics in the old days were simple, and here, the exhortations to boogie are no more trite than the lyrics of their classic, “Oh La De Da”. The only difference is that “Oh La De Da” was about clapping your hands. 
The more extrovert lyrics and sound predominant on this album are preferable to the more restrained albums recorded with Mayfield. I certainly would not knock an album because mention is made of that five letter word - disco or because I cannot boogie. 
Artist: Blondie Chaplin 
Album: Blondie Chaplin 
Record Label: Elecktra
Reviewed By: John Malloy
I never heard of this guy before, but that ain't particularly surprising. He's from South Africa, but he’s no Boer, despite his deceptive moniker. Apparently he's been around the British and American scene for a few years, and has played for the Beach Boys on some of their studio efforts. This is his first solo outing.
And its not bad. There’s a whole bunch of solid rock'n'roll songs that (accompanied by the appropriate medication) could get you up on yer feet and rocking at any all-night boogie session. Mr Chaplin has got a fine set of musicians behind him. Famous names include Richard Tee, Kenny Gradney, and Gareth Hudson. His own guitar work is consistently good. 
The problem that stops the album from being an out and out success is the lack of any real flair. There isn't the originality and fire that immediately distinguishes a Lowell George or a Frankie Miller. While his guitar playing is good, it's no better than a legion of rock guitarists, and while his songs are good, his voice lacks the personality and range of expression required to drive them home in true rock style. 
What can you say about an album that doesn’t quite make it (witout sounding like a blase and bored critic)? Give it a listen. Great to dance to play it a lot Four Stars? 
Artist: Michael Nesmith 
Album: From a Radio Engine to the Photon Wing 
Record Label: Stetson
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Listening to this record creates difficulties for your average cynic. It is reasonably common knowledge that Michael Nesmith, after discovering country music, made the logical next step into religiosity. He became a fully-fledged Christian Scientist. Like many a believer, he does not confine his religion to getting all purtied up of a Sunday, and subscribing to Plain Truth. It is lying right there in the grooves for all to see.
The doctrines of Christian Science are rather more, um, cosmic than those expressed in the usual run of country music, and this is often the cause of overstatement. Evidence of this can be found in Nesmith’s ill-fated Prison project where he attempted to deliver an unabashed slice of religion to a determinedly deaf public and then compounded the commercial folly of sincerity with marketing suicide by attempting to sell it mail-order. 
At the same time, that very sincerity, as the handful who saw his 1975 Auckland concert will agree, is the most winning aspect of Nesmith’s approach. It is a very risky attitude for a rock ’n’ roller, but like Townshend’s Who Came First, FARETTPW is a tribute to the cardinal song-writing virtue of actually wanting to say something. 
Once you have taken the preliminary step of throwing away the lyric sheet, it is possible to appreciate the virtues of the artist’s deceptively easy songs. With ingenious chord changes over a frequently Carribean rhythm, they insinuate themselves into the most resistant subconscious. So many of them have the same kind of simple directness (probably more self-conscious) that makes the McGarrigle sisters’ work so charming. That’s what this record is. It’s downright charming. 
Artist: Carole King 
Album: Simple Things 
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Tapestry must be one of popular music’s all-time great selling albums, up there with Dark Side of the Moon, Hot August Night and The Sound of Music. It has continued to sell another million copies every year since its initial market blitzkrieg. (I know of three people who are onto their second copies.) No similar fortune has befallen any of Ms King’s subsequent albums, two of which can be found languishing in fair numbers in sale bins around the city. How to account for this situation: Are the later albums all that poor; were too many printed; or does the reason lie in the habits of her average record buyer?' Probably a little of all three, but, in fairness, we should credit Joe Average with more taste than simply buying up Love at the Greek. He has recognised Ms King's artistic decline; that with odd exceptions, such as the stunning “Jazz Man” she has pursued the same musical approach that gave her the success of Tapestry, but with ever-diminishing returns.
 There are (says the reviewer, fingers crossed), a couple of songs on Simple Things which show glimmerings of : a new direction for Carole King. Both numbers concerned are co-written by one Rick Evers, who, I assume, is the gent in the cover photo and possibly Carole's new love. It just could be the lady has found another song-writing cum inspirational partner ... and, yes I do miss the Goffin-King combination. Of the three joint efforts "Hold On” is perhaps the best, being both laid-back and powerful, centred around Carole's strong rhythm guitar - a bit like David Crosby but with guts. "To Know That I Love You” initially threatens 3½ minutes of wimpy slush, yet with a good arrangement develops into a strong and memorable song. This one also features Evers in vocal harmonies. The title track sounds too carefully formulated, almost as if she wants it covered by the Carpenters. 
Of the songs she wrote alone, only the gentle paean “In the Name of Love” and her single "Hard Rock Cafe” really succeed, the latter largely due to its punchy brass arrangement. The other five songs are various hackneyed reruns of old I themes - you've heard them before and probably in fresher form. (Her muscular chord-pounding piano is also beginning to wear thin.) 
Ms King’s lyrics have been ever sweet and sentimental, whether dealing with boy-girl relationships or simple friendship and loyalty. Most of her songs have been addressed to someone, but now the ‘You’ is becoming generalised, and not always with success. When her direct audience is extended within strict limits, such as the city-dwelling workers in "Hard Rock Cafe”, she can still write intelligent lines, but in addressing herself to the whole cosmic condition she flounders in mystical banality; 
Romantic phrases come to me 
Whenever I see injustice being done 
or 
He is one
She is one
Tree is one . . . etcetera ad nauseam
However I don’t wish to end on a sour note; but to restress what, hopefully, are the beginnings of a new musical partnership. Have a listen to “Hold On”. 
Artist: Dr Feelgood 
Album: Sneaking Suspicion 
Record Label: United Artists
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Somewhere between the British rhythm and blues revival of Graham Parker and the Rumour and the uncompromising rawness of Johnny Rotten lies the music of Dr Feelgood. In all fairness though Dr Feelgood predates both Parker and the punks as champions of hard nosed, no nonsense rock ’n’ roll and as such have a deserved following amongst British audiences. 
By listening to the Feelgood’s classic live album Stupidity, we dismembered limbs of the rock market, stuck here on t’other-side-o-th' world can at least applaud by proxy the indignation of Dr Feelgood who ignore the super clean studio sound required by today’s pop and soul market. What’s more a few listenings suffice to have us believe that this is a band who know what they want to play, and play it tightly and fiercely. 
Sneaking Suspicion, Dr Feelgood’s most recent studio recording is made in much the same tradition as earlier material. Real Feelgood afficionados may note that this studio material is a little less gusty than their live recording, some may feel that with only 10 songs, compared with 13 on Stupidity, the band is stretching itself thinner, but in essence Dr Feelgood remains the same.
On Sneaking Suspicion several blues oldies are covered including Willie Dixon's "You'll Be Mine”, but in terms of treatment oldies and originals sound much the same - that is punchy, basic, and to the point. The one feature that does emerge from this album is a greater use of singer Lee Brilleaux’s slide playing. As a slide player Brilleaux has a snarlingly dirty sound and a sense of what is effective. Matched with Wilko Johnson’s driving rhythm style the slide part makes “Sneaking Suspicion” itself an A-one rocker. The remainder of the record never really recaptures the excitement of the title track but nevertheless does an honest half hour or more’s work. 
Artist: The Stranglers
Album: IV Rattus Norvegians 
Record Label: United Artists 
Reviewed By: Mike Chunn
When you put a record on and the first words you hear are: "Sometimes I want to smack your face" it is obvious something is up. After years of success and, lately, a lot of wind, the “pace and love" that made so many florists rich, is retreating down the most worn paths of contemporary music . . . people are losing interest; simple as that. 
Frankly, I'm surprised that a group like the Stranglers hasn’t evolved out of the NZ community. Every Saturday, on every football field and in every hotel (I don't know about the race-tracks) someone wants to smack someone’s face so why is 80% of NZ music so nice ? I guess it’s because the NZ circuit is one of those “once you're in you can’t get out" affairs and complacency is rife. With complacency comes boredom and that's that. The groups become boring and you can’t escape them. 
The Stranglers played the London pubs for many, many moons and it shows. They remind me of Television though more amusing, lyrically stronger and musically more interesting (in other words, better). The keyboard player and bassist have very distinctive styles (and sounds) being most noticeable on “Grip” their current single, and “Peaches”, a great song about going down to the beach to check out the tits. 
Looks like I'm stuck here all summer 
What a bummer 
Still I could think of a lot worse places to be 
. . . like down in the sewer …
Dare I say it, the album is very male orientated and that is half the attraction. Apart from the gaudy packaging with terrible photographs, the album is very good. If I were a judge on New Faces, I would give it a B plus but then I’m not likely to go bankrupt soon. 
The playing is very strong and Hugh Cornwall’s vocals (really the focal point of the album) put across the crazy lyrics particularly well. And guess what? You can hear the words. 
... I admit I even stole 
But the worst crime that I ever did 
was play some rock 'n roll 
But the money’s no good . . . 
He's so right.
Artist: The Average White Band and Ben E King
Album Benny and Us
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal.
The uniting of Ben E. King with the Average White Band might seem like a curious pairing on paper. But fear not. On vinyl, the collaboration works surprisingly well, producing the most energetic and creative work from both parties in some time. 
There are few surprises. Instrumentally, it sounds exactly like the Average White Band and while Ben E. King sounds less distinctive than he did in his prime, he’s nevertheless in fine voice. He's still a classic soul singer and, though occasionally mixed too far down here, he remains a stronger voice than either of the Average White Band’s vocalists. 
There’s no new material from the Average White’s here. Instead, they've opted for a wide selection of outside material including oldies from both collaborators. One of the best performances is the opening cut, “Get It Up For Love”, which manages to be danceable without descending into disco-dreck. The other killer on the album is Donny Hathaway’s “Someday We’ll All Be Free ”, a soul ballad with a grandly quirky chorus which segues into a funky version of John Lennon’s “Imagine”. The closing song of the album is Alan Gorrie’s “Keeping It to Myself", which was featured on the AWB album, and here is performed in even more convincing style. 
A fruitful collaboration then, that only once or twice descends into wasteful jamming. Producer, Arif Mardin, has given the album the best soul production heard in some while. It’s a no frills job that allows Steve Ferrone’s muscular drumming to power the whole thing alone. 
If you’ve ever been a fan of either Ben E. King or the Average White Band, check this one out. It’s a collaboration that seems to have brought many of the best features out of both of them. Recommended.
Artist: Poco 
Album: Indian Summer 
Record Label: ABC
Reviewed By: Jeremy Tempter
Rock’n'roll, as lan Hunter once sang, is a loser's game. But there are winners as well as losers. Too bad then that Poco has been losing for nine years now. 
Since their move from Epic to ABC Records in 1975 and the beginning of a production colloboration with Mark Harman, the band’s improvement has been noticeable, developing a more polished sound that is further away from their country/rock roots. The first album for ABC, Head Over Heels, was their best up to then, producing a top 50 hit in the States, “Keep On Trying”. The next album, Rose of Cimarron, looked set to further improve their fortunes. But the title track, which with any justice would have been a king size hit, bombed and the album sold less than any of its predecessors.
Poco nearly called it quits during the recording of this, their thirteenth album, their third for ABC. But, after consideration, Rusty Young, Timothy Schmit, Paul Cotton and George Grantham have stayed together as Poco to keep on trying. 
Indian Summer is undoubtedly Poco's best album to date, marking the complete transformation from country to rock that earlier albums had begun. But unfortunately the album lacks the potential hit single needed to attract new listeners to a group name so well-worn.
Poco's perfect vocal harmonies form the basis of their distinctive sound but their harmonies sometimes threaten to overweigh the songs themselves. And, with the lead vocal spot seldom shared around, it is too easy for an air of sameness to prevail over an entire album.
The sameness is an illusion which disappears after close listening. In the meantime, though, the Eagles - the most successful group to plough the fields originally sown by the Buffalo Springfield and the Byrds - are more readily accepted. 
While it can only be small comfort to Poco, it is the Eagles’ lyrical banality and more simply structured songs which makes them the more popular group. And why compare diamonds to dust?
Artist: The Amazing Rhythm Aces 
Album: Toucan Do It Too. 
Record Label: ABC
Reviewed By: John Malloy
The Amazing Rhythm Aces are essentially a studio band, and for my money they are one of the tastiest units around. Their first album, Stacked Deck, was a vinyl masterpiece of evocative songs, restrained playing, and fine harmonies. They play rhythm’n’blues with strong overtones of country music, and their lead singer and songwriter, Russell Smith, has one of the best voices in popular music. 
Toucan Do It Too is their third album, following the superb Too Stuffed to Jump, and it maintains their high standards. The songs are simple and direct, although there are maybe a few too many "pain of love" lyrics for my taste. Barry Burton’s guitar and steel are consistently good. James Hooker’s Piano is the other virtuoso instrument, providing fills and lead breaks with understated brilliance.
The emphasis on this album has shifted slightly from country and R’n’ B to more rhythmic stuff. There is reggae and calypso influence, but they always sound like the ARA, and not some cheap copy of a Jamaican band. Butch McDade’s drumming retains the light touch of the earlier material and copes well with the less rigid styles required on tracks like “Never Been to the Islands”. Other Standout tracks are "Two Can Do It Too” and “Never Been Hurt”.
Southern Bands certainly aren’t all they were reputed to be a couple of years ago, but there seems to be tradition evolving from the meeting of country and R’n’B in the South. The Amazing Rhythm Aces are one of the finest bands in that tradition.
Artist: Elkie Brooks 
Album: Two Days Away 
Record Label: A & M
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Any singer who doesn’t write her own material or who doesn't have a strong vocal personality, has got problems. Many solo singers flounder by failing to ever establish an identity for themselves.
Elkie Brooks has suffered from this very problem. Once the wild-haired lady at the front of hard-rocking British band, Vinegar Joe, but since their break-up, she’s seemed a little confused about quite which direction to take. She directed her first album in a hard rock direction, as she admits: “I tried to make a commercial album for the media and the punters, not for jazz fans or rock fans.” On this, her second solo album, she's trying to be a sultry jazz-blues singer. And it works.
Together with ‘producers historic’, Jerry Leiber and Mike Stoller, she’s put together I a superbly tasteful album that features her talents set in varied styles, in all of which she is uniformly successful. In fact, I’d call this a classic pop album, if I didn’t think that would turn off more people than it would convince. For there are at least two great pop performances: Ellie Greenwich’s “Sunshine After the Rain” and Elkie’s song, written with her husband, "Spiritland”. But the album covers several musical styles, including two great gospel influenced sons: "Mojo Hannah” and “Do Right Woman”. The remaining tracks offer a variety of Elkie Brook’s musical mainstays: blues, rock'n’roll and jazz-influenced songs.
I mean, her version of “Do Right Woman” may not improve on Aretha's classic, but it comes bloody close. There are very few female singers today who can match that kind of power and Leiber and Stoller’s production consistently finds the right setting for each song. A productive partnership then, that one can only hope will be continued. There can never be too many singers around with this kind of quality.
Artist: The Crusaders 
Album: Those South Knights 
Record Label: Blue Thumb
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
You could say that the Crusaders are experienced musicians: four members have been together for twenty-five years, while all six have appeared, either individually or in various combinations, as session men on well over 150 albums. (Joni Mitchell’s Hissing of Summer Lawns and Al Jarreau's Glow are two that come to mind.) Their own albums number nearly thirty and they play, as the blurb-sheet states, "an engagingly smooth blend of R & B, jazz and contemporary funk.” 
Die-hard jazz purists tended to write them off for diluting the True Art to suit mass consumption and, while it is true the Crusaders have never forged new musical pathways, criticism on this account is irrelevant. They have no aspirations to join the avant-garde, being quite content to rework more familiar ground which they do very well indeed.
If, like me, you enjoy dancing (around the lounge or whatever), but remain unmoved by 95% of disco because you suspect it was produced by a computer, than take heart. This band can get down and strut with the best. Not only do your feet move to the impeccable rhythm section but there are some meaty solos to keep your mind happy. Five of the seven numbers are danceable; in fact their very structure makes them most enjoyable this way. Although not quite a 'Let's find a groove and take turns to blow' approach, the pieces do tend to rely on arranged, simple riff-type themes and extended soloing. Over a whole album it can begin to pall if one simply sits and listens; even exemplary musicianship needs a varied format. Of the two slower numbers, however, guitarist Larry Carlton's ” till the Sun Shines” impresses with its brooding controlled dynamics. 
The Crusaders' chief asset is their sheer instrumental talent and wealth of experience. Their only drawback is a certain thinness of basic material and, perhaps, a tendency to play it safe no-one is venturing anywhere near his edge on this record but, as I’ve been saying, this music is aimed primarily at your feet, not your head. I play it all the time.