Artist: Nils Lofgren
Album: I Came To Dance 
Record Label: A&M 
Reviewed By: Jeremy Tempter
Last year's Cry Tough must have caught the people at A&M on the hop for, despite the commercial pressures for a follow-up album that would push him from cult hero to superstar, Nils Lofgren opted to indulge in experiment. Cry Tough was centred around the harsh ferocity of Lofgren's guitar-playing and employed two producers, David Briggs and Al Kooper, with a variety of backing musicians. By its very nature then it was inconsistent; Briggs had produced all four Grin albums and Lofgren s solo debut with a minimal use of studio effects and, by comparison, the five songs produced by Kooper sounded overdone.
But now with his third solo album since he disbanded Grin, / Came to Dance. Lofgren has a steady backing band - Womell Jones on bass, Andy Newmark on drums, Rev Patrick Henderson on piano, with Nils' brother, Tom Lofgren, on rhythm guitar. And Nils has seen fit to chance his arm at production (with help from Andy Newmark).
So from all indications it seems that somebody has given him the hard word; perhaps it really was his manager: 
Well my manager kept telling me 
If I want to be great I'd better wise up 
And sing my songs straight. 
I said "Listen here, fool, 
In order to survive 
I've gotta be my dirty self 
I won't play no jive ".
But in fact the addition of a full-time band presents still more problems, on record anyway. When Nils pulled Tom into the line up for Grin's third album the addition of another guitar player to what had been a three-piece band seemed to cramp Nils' style; similarly on / Came To Dance Nils' guitar is nearly always present but his playing is always restrained, and he is denied the chance to stretch out. The intention seems to have been to preserve a band entity - even to the extent of adding a piano player although Lofgren is a reasonably able pianist himself - and to mould as image the combination of brash confidence and innocent honesty that has made his best songs so endearing.
But, taken on this album alone, the innocence, the brashness, the "dirty self" is an image without substance. Even to initiates it must appear that Lofgren is playing what is now a contrived role. The songs are lavished with superfluous nuances - horns, even strings and an overworked bevy of backing vocalists - to obscure, it would seem, the simplicity and catchiness which are their essence. Besides, it was in his songs of teen innocence and boy/girl relationships that might have been - songs like “Take You To the Movies Tonight ", "I Don't Want To Know" and "Mud In Your Eye" where this image fitted most neatly, and there are no similar songs here.
The one chance that Lofgren gives himself to step outside the sameness of his own compositions on this album - a version of the Stones "Happy”- dissipates the song's original excitement to a lacklustre show of technique.
Nils Lofgren is not down for the count and nor is he likely to give up. But by the next studio album he would be better to take a greater role in the band himself and to work for a simpler and stronger sound.
But he should be left to dictate his own terms. And even though he still promises more than he delivers, rock'n'roll is healthier for his presence. Oh, and Nils - the Supreme Court of Rock'n'roll has reserved its decision. 
Artist: Redeye
Album: Redeye
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: John Malloy
These boys have been around and it shows. They are excellent musicians and they bring a wide collective experience to their session work and live playing. You've heard them on Grunt Machine. They played on the superb Mark Williams album, Taking it All in Stride. The band consists of Dennis Mason (sax, vocals), Bob Smith (keyboards, vocals), Tom Swainson (drums), Fritz Stigter (bass) and John O’Connor (guitar). 
This is their first album together and its a good effort for first time out. The first side is a punchy collection of songs with a variety of detectable influences, most notably Little Feat. Like the Feat, our boys are musically solid, and Rick White’s production is unobtrusive and clean. One Track, ‘‘He's My Man" is blatantly Lowell Georgeinfluenced, but the slide playing is good, and the rhythm section cooks so, what the hell - it's a good song. 
But the second side lets you down a trifle. The trouble is that Bob Smith and Dennis Mason write good music but mediocre words. On the first side this flaw is overshadowed by their musical prowess, but on the second side the music is less prominent, and the lyrics become more obvious. It's not that they are terrible lyrics, but they lack fire and imagination. It's the same flaw that mars Rockinghorse’s songs, but it may not be one which concerns many of their audience. 
In all, it's an album well worth a listen, and it stands up well to the Critical Ear. The info sheet states that these are the first songs the band has written, and if the excellence of the first side had continued into the second, I would have given it a better rating. When they get their lyrics up to scratch, they'll be a hard band to beat.
Artist: Rufus 
Album: Ask Rufus 
Record Label: ABC Records 
Reviewed By: John Malloy
Rufus have in the past produced at least one consistently exciting album, Rags to Rufus and one great single, the Stevie Wonder song “Tell me Something Good". They've previously been an aggressive and tasteful unit fronted by one of the best female vocalists since Aretha Franklin. Chaka Khan has all the hallmarks of a talented singer; pitch, range, power, and phrasing. So I expected good things from this record.
Foolish lad! Those with high expectations are easily disappointed. Ask Rufus is a good record, but possibly not their best. There are several minor problems with it. Rufus naturally lack the freshness their sound had the first time round, so there is less immediate impact. It's a record that grows on you gradually rather than nailing you to the wall the first time round. There is perhaps a little more sophisticaton and a little less energy than was evident on Rags to Rufus, which opens with the potent "You Got the Love". And then there's that cliched disco beat that mars the first track, "After Midnight". 
There must have been some changes in the lineup of the band, and this perhaps shows up in the songwriting. The album lacks the peaks of previous albums. That is not to say that the songs are poor, but there just isn’t the outstanding track that would make this a brilliant album. The high points are songs like “Better Days", which stealthily invades your subconscious until you find yourself singing it at odd moments. 
Other goodies are “Earth Song", and ironically, “Slow Screw Against the Wall", which despite the name is a tasteful and striking instrumental, an improvement over their previous frenetic and slightly grating efforts without C.Khan.
Julie Burchill recently slagged this album in NME, apparently because it wasn't as good to screw to as she had hoped. I feel it deserves better treatment than that. Isolated from their earlier work, it’s a tasty collection of soul music that grows on you as only music by a righteous singer and a tasty band can. If the producer had cut back on the strings, I might be forced to admit that it's bloody good. 
Artist: Supercharge 
Album: Horizontal refreshment 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Supercharge are a British band with a name as a funk act which dabbles in comic asides. They appear to make a specialty of potty humour (one song on earlier album Local Lads Make Good is an idyll a la Drifters on the theme of a girlfriend who urinates in the kitchen sink) and acting like fruitcakes on stage. On Horizontal Refreshment, however, the gags are played down with all-round benefit. What stand out instead are a couple of fine songs, some impressive playing, and an excess of energy.
It only takes a glance at the blurb sheet for Horizontal Refreshment to figure out that Supercharge are a rather excessive bunch. Would you believe there are over fifty names acknowledged? Take away the eleven who play anything, and five producer/engineer people and that leaves a lot of edded extras. So it is less than surprising to discover that such extravagance filters its way into arrangement and playing; busy is what I’d call this mob.
Sadly, Horizontal Refreshment is a case of promise disfigured. The good songs are indeed there, the two best being "After the Show" and "Let the Feeling Grow". The first is nearly a country song and incorporates both a purposeful melody and an extra-catchy horn riff. "Let the Feeling Grow" is a likeable Allen Toussaint imitation and grows on one. Toussaint gets more mileage in the form of his own number "Last Train", but the master's version on Southern Nights is much more convincing, more crisply recorded and more sparsely instrumented.
This last point is the telling one. So often Supercharge lay everything on, and at breakneck speed. It's damn tiring to listen to; the end of "Purple Avenger” just about drives me silly. I do wish someone in there would tame them - then this poor reviewer wouldn’t have to sit by his turntable taking the needle from selected highlight to selected highlight so to avoid bouts of exhausting frenzy. 
Artist: Booker T. & the M.G.’s
Album: Universal Language
Record Label: Asylum Records
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
Asylum Records Universal Language is the first album recorded by the reformed Booker T. & the M.G.'s. They disbanded in 1970 and their drummer Al Jackson was killed in 1975. Willie Hall, another old hand from Stax Records ably takes Jackson’s place. 
Booker T. & the M.G.'s major contribution to recording in the sixties was as studio musicians. Working with such artists as Otis Redding and Wilson Pickett they created many classic soul records. Their demanding studio role with Stax Records restricted their time and energy for their own recordings so, too often, their albums were rushed and consisted largely of competent versions of current popular hits. Though their later recordings "Hang 'em High" and "Time is Tight” were popular, their first hit, "Green Onions" remained their greatest recording.
Time allowed all the tracks on Universal Language to be written by Booker T. Jones, Steve Cropper and Donald "Duck" Dunn. Booker T. Jones' organ is less dominant than on the Stax albums, while Steve Cropper's guitar is featured more, particularly on ‘'Reincarnation" and "Love Wheels' . But the basic sound is still the same. With no horns or strings Booker T. & the M.G.'s cool but funky music remains unique. Freaky keyboards and voice box on the odd track add little, but neither do they detract significantly from the basic sound. 
Universal Language is their first album consisting entirely of their own compositions. There are no new ways of making good music but Universal Language does have nine new songs and is the most consistent album I have listened to by Booker T. & the M.G.’s. 
Artist: 10CC
Album: Deceptive Bends 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: Mike Chunn
In 1973, I was in a Direction record shop (before they took a ride on Plummet Airlines) and while listening to one of the latest cosmic efforts, I read a review of a debut album by an English group, 10cc. My interest aroused, I asked Mr Direction to play me the album. I was immediately impressed; the strong humour and satire appealed to me (still does), so I completed a purchase much to Mr Direction's relief. "I never though I was going to get rid of that," he said as I scurried out of the shop and down Swanson St, stopping briefly to throw a brick into Sydney Eady’s. 
The band is now a spin-off from the original four-member group which split into two camps due to the fact that their wives didn’t get on. Eric Stewart (guitar) and Graham Gouldman (bass) produced 90% of the product with some help from Paul Burgess on drums and percussion i.e. congas, claves, cabasa, a go-go bells, woodblocks, vibes, tambourines, bell-tree, rototoms, handclaps, gong, piano stool and triangle. Get the picture? These lads have decided to put everything including the sink on this record which could have been courting disaster unless the arrangements had been carefully thought out. However they pull through as Stewart and Gouldman are very good at arranging. The songs are never cluttered and there is still that emphasis on their excellent vocals, always the focal point on previous 10cc albums.
Lyrically, the tradition isn’t carried so well. Kevin Godley, the previous drummer, was the true wit of the group and attempts on this record to continue in that vein don’t really come off. However they can be clever as in "I Bought a Flat Guitar Tutor": 
I bought a flat guitar tutor 
Diminished responsibility 
You’re de ninth person to see 
On the other hand, songs like “The Things We Do For Love" have little substance, relying on the sprightly, poppish melodies.
Musically, the songs are too straightforward, direct, gutless etc. to leave any real impression. The album reminds me of an "English” version of something like the Four Seasons’ Helicon album (yes, I have heard it) and if I had to categorize this record it would be in that Four Seasons Category - ‘AM Music'. There’s no creative spark, no charisma; nothing to keep my ears peeled. I will add that while listening to the album, I left the room to change my son’s pants and I thought of something which I will use to finish. 
This record was made from many splendid things, however the end result doesn’t really smell too good.
Artist: Dave Edmunds 
Album: Get It
Record Label: Swan Song 
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
There are probably a good half-dozen of us who still remember Dave Edmunds as the guitarist with Love Sculpture, the group which in 1968 had an album, In the Land of the Few, and a stunning single which topped the British charts. A frenzied rock version of Khatchaturian’s "Sabre Dance". 
But Love Sculpture never managed a follow-up hit and soon broke up after a six-week tour of the States. Dave Edmunds headed back to his own recording studios, Rockfielcf Recording Studios, in Monmouthshire, Wales. He was next heard from in 1970 with another chart-topping single; this time a remake of the old Bartholomew/King song, "I Hear You Knocking", originally made popular by Smiley Lewis. An album on Regal Zonophone, Rockpile, followed. 
Since then Edmunds has appeared as session guitarist on various worthy albums, including Graham Parker’s Howlin’ Wind, and as procucer, most recently on the Flaming Groovies’ excellent Shake Some Action.
Edmunds’ greatest strength is as producer but what distinguishes his new album, Get it, from the usual 33⅓ collection of tepis reruns that anyone from Linda Ronstadt to the Bay City Rollers (and more besides) makes of what were once rock'n'roll classics is the affection and enthusiasm he imparts to the songs he covers. If you've any doubts just listen to the authenticity of his arrangement of Arthur Crudup’s “My Baby Left Me". 
While Rockpile held only one original composition - “Hell Of A Pain”, written with John Williams, the bassest from Love Sculpture - amid such as Willie Dixon’s “Egg Or The Hen" and Chuck Berry’s "The Promised Land" and "Sweet Little Rock and Roller", Get It makes an attempt to redress the balance. There are 13 songs here (count’em), none much more than three minutes long. Between Edmunds and Nick Lowe (ex-Brinsley Schwarz) there are five originals but, more importantly, it's not immediately obvious that they are originals. While for other artists that might be a condemnation the reason it’s not here is that all the original songs - and my favourite is Nick Lowe's "I Knew the Bride (When She Used To Rock'n’Roll)" - are treated to the same approach as the rest of the material; an approach which generally favours acoustic guitar and a dense mix of backing vocals and rhythm section in Phil Spector-like sound. 
And surprise, surprise — Get It includes Bob Seger's "Get Out Of Denver” from Seger’s album Seven, and Graham Parker's “Back To Schooldays" off Howlin' Wind.
Dave Edmunds is a multi-instrumentalist but he limits himself here to playing all the guitars on this album, helped by such friends as ex-Brinsleys Billy Rankin, Bob Andrews and the aforementioned Nick Lowe (Brinsley Schwarz's Nervous On The Road was recorded at Rockfield), Stephen Goulding (who with Bob Andrews is now a member of Graham Parker's band) and Terry Williams of the Man band. For having such a fine bunch of friends and for showing such good taste you should probably show your support for this man, but I'd wager he won’t be too put out if you don’t. And really I'd recommend this album a little more warmly if it weren’t for the sneaking suspicion that maybe Rockpile was a little better (try looking through the deletions for that one) and that maybe he shouldn't have used fade-outs so casually on the songs here. But I always was just a bit too hard to please. 
Artist: Murray Grindlay 
Album: Key 
Artist: Rick Steele 
Album Take it or Leave it 
Record Label: Mandrill 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
The New Zealand recording industry probably uses fewer feet of recording tape each year than are consumed by the average 10cc single. There are only three recording studios in Auckland capable of turning out a creditable modern record, and precious few local performers ever see the inside of them.
It is all the more frustrating, then, that so much of the local recorded product suffers from apparent lack of motivation. You would think that New Zealand musicians would be bursting to get into the studio. An abundance of ideas, only barely held in check by experience. If these two records are anything to go by the contrary is more the case.
Murray Grindlay has been a paid-up member of the local music scene since the majority of us were in the fourth form, and it’s him who’s responsible for all those naggingly successful country music commercials that float by behind pictures of grain fieIds and such on television. For his debut solo album, he has stuck to green pastures with the same studio, and the same musicians, who collaborate with him on those jingles.
It would be too easy and fundamentally pointless to make some crack about the commercials and Grindlay's performance here. There can be no doubt that his considerable skill as a tunesmith, his comfortable country-rock voice and the effortless professionalism of his cohorts make it hard to point to any part of this record and say that it could have been done better. What is at issue is more deep-seated than that. 
Basically, I find it difficult to know exactly why this record was made. There are a batch of love songs that don't seem to express much more than pleasant contentment, a funk instrumental by the band, a country song by the pedal-steel player, a cover version of Happy Days are Here Again", and a couple of songs about what Grindlay knows best - being an underemployed, dissatisfied musician. Grindlay has little to say, but says it winningly.
Unfortunately, Rick Steele’s record has a lot less going for it. I found it really upsetting to listen to this record and think of some of the people who could have been using the studio time that went into it. In England a small, new, record company built around a studio - like Stiff Records - is free to produce a different, and energetic kind of output. Here, Mandrill Records, an offshoot of Glyn Tucker and Dave Hurley's Parnell recording studio, opens its catalogue with a record which could have been rejected any time in the last five years. 
The same musicians, in the main, who perform on Murray Grindlay appear on Take it or Leave it. They contribute perfunctory backings to such numbers as “Bloody Daggaville", “Hangover Blues", “Numb Bum Blues”, and “Life Gets Tedious”, pack up, and go home. The worst of it is that they have probably done the songs justice. As a final blow, Rick Steele pitches into the autobiographical Jackson Browne song, "Ready or Not”. It is as well that Browne, who reportedly acts with anger every time the song (about his dead wife) is requested, will never hear this version. I'm sure that he would be less than pleased to hear a simple statement like, "Next thing I remember, she was all moved in", turned into, "Next thing I remember, she was on the pill." That kind of mistake, and there are a number of others in the same song, speaks volumes for the degree of commitment that went into this record.
It is really a shame to have to criticise these records, and if there were no signs of anything better on the horizon, the decision would be doubly difficult. However, the Mark Williams album, the Hello Sailor single, even the Malcolm McCallum do-it-yourself album, show that while there is no reason for shame about the New Zealand record industry, there is no excuse for shoddiness. 
Artist: Marcia Hines 
Album: Shining 
Record Label: Miracle 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Sultry she looks on the front cover, cutesy on the back. She's American and she's black and she works in Sydney. Apart from that what is there to tell about Marcia Hines? Unfortunately, not a helluva lot. In her fact Shining is a frustrating record because it is a completely unsatisfactory measure of how much talent Marcia Hines does, or does not posses. 
Throwing proverbial caution to proverbial winds, I'm inclined to believe she might really be quite good. True, her voice is schizophrenic - it too vacillates between the cultry and the cutesy - true, in her worst moments, she sounds like Millie Small trying a hand at Philadelphia soul, but just sometimes she shows off a flexibility and power that may one day be exploited.
Whatever her promise, Marcia Hines is at present in the doldrums. Or rather, she seems to be in the clutches of one Robie G Porter, her Australian producer. Porter writes songs, helps arrange, and produces on Shining, and more undistinguished song writing, arranging, and producing one could go a long way to find. No, it's not incompetent, it's just boring. And if Porter was responsible for the choice of other songs covered I wouldn’t be at all suprised. All good MOR stuff, fit to have you begging for Joan Armatrading even for Eddie and the Hotrods.
Believe me I do not indulge in anti Australian rhetoric - the best treatment on the album is of a song called “Love is the Key’’ by Australian songwriter Rick Springfield - but if Marcia Hines is determined to record in the Antipodes, she would do a lot better to seek out Alan Galbraith. Mark Williams’ new one, aimed at roughly the same market shows its heels to this uninspired piece of plastic.