Artist: GOLDIE
Album: Saturnz Retums 
Record Label: Metalheadz
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
An interesting kaleidoscope of ideas from the larger than life drum and bass icon, Goldie. Drum and bass purists, this double album may not be for you. Saturnz Returns is a fusion of ideas, sounds, noises, and vocals, not normally found on the typical drum and bass release. I'm calling this double album drum and bass’s first opera. 
Disc one, titled Mother, contains a symphonic overload of samples, noise, violins, pained vocals, and the odd occasional beat. Intense and moody and definitely not dancefloor material. 
Disc two, titled Father, is easier to get your head around. Here, Goldie collaborates with Noel Gallagher, David Bowie, and KRS-1, and opens up drum and bass to a wider audience. Father is definitely ‘drum and bass’ as we have known it. I have to say there are no real epic standout tracks on this disc, but it works well because the individual tracks gel together beautifully to produce an intense listening experience. 
It is obvious that Goldie never set out to make Saturnz Returns a dancefloor album, this is his moment of introspective self-expression, a life story of harshness and urban depravity. Dark. 
Artist: VARIOUS
Album: Platinum Breaks Il 
Record Label: Metalheadz
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Groundbreaking label, Metalheadz, come back at us again with their second compilation collection, which features some of the best drum and bass artists the world has to offer. Most styles of the drum and bass spectrum can be heard on this double album, from the lush and ambient sounds of Hidden Agenda’s ‘Pressin’ On’ and ‘Dispatch 2, to the darkness of Ed Rush’s ‘The Raven’, and everything in between. 
Many of the tracks on Platinum Breaks have been out for quite some time, and have been ‘anthems’ or ‘classics’ in the drum and bass world, tracks such as Adam F’s ‘Metropolis’, JMajik's “Your Sound’, Source Direct’s ‘Dark Metal’, Codename John's ‘The Warning’, and Optical’s ‘Swift Glide’, could have all been heard in the last few months at most drum and bass events. Platinum Breakz Il also features some exclusive releases; Digital's ‘Promise’, Dillinja’s ‘Promise’, Optical’s ‘Swift Glide’, and Lemon D’s ‘Chainsaw’ can only be found here. 
Platinum Breakz II is generally what you can expect from any Metalheadz release — uncompromising quality.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Quantum Mechanics
Record Label: Renegade Hardware
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
A double album of the more creative and experimental music available in the drum and bass genre. Renegade Hardware is an offshoot of the Trouble On Vinyl label, created in mid 1995 as an outlet for the more esoteric music that the TOV artists were producing. 
Singles such as Future Forces ‘Dead By Dawn’, Genotype’s ‘Extra Terrestrial’; and Future Forces and Fierce’s ‘Constant’, were all well sought after 12” dancefloor fillers, and all can be found on Quantum Mechanics.
The CD version (there’s vinyl also) comes with a second disc which features the first ever Future Forces mix CD, and features some of the tracks off disc one, together with new material from other Renegade artists such as Subphonics, Monochrome, Vertex, and Legion. This album is not for the faint hearted or the Latte drum and bass brigade. Tracks on this album can be uncompromisingly brutal, and will blow the bins on many people’s home stereos (and possibly blow many peoples minds also). The drum and bass converted will love it, while those with only limited drum and bass listening experience may find it a little hard to audibly digest. 
Make no mistake, this is a cutting edge release for those serious about their drum and bass.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Dance Net 3 
Record Label: Mushroom
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
It's hard not to be negative about these compilation albums which are aimed directly at the ‘cheese’ market. | search for good words to say and look for the positives of these kind of releases, but alas there are few nice things to say about this cheesy collection of 24 hum-drum ‘up-lifting’ tracks. There are some well known tracks on this album ‘The Age of Love’s ‘The Age of Love’, and the MTV anthem, Run DMC vs Jason Nevin’s ‘lt's Like That’, but Dance Net 3 mostly features dated sounds; dated samples, and dated ideas.
This is definitely a good soundtrack for all Newmarket retail stores. Cheesy and chirpy.
Artist: ROBERT MILES 
Album: 23am 
Record Label: BMG
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
The promotional blurb from the record company states that Robert Miles was once presented with a Muzik Award. A Muzik award? He should have been given a Muzak award, for the genre | would place Miles in is Muzak. Of course Miles is known globally for the Muzak track of the century ‘Children’, which sold 13 million copies worldwide, and remarkably, many tracks on this album sound incredibly similar to that early release.
This is lightweight, easy listening stuff, perfect to read a Mills & Boon novel to, perfect for background cafe listening, perfect for soft cock radio stations. It contains everything an easy listener craves; dreamy vocals, string orchestrations, easy beats, and warm synthesiser sounds. So, if you want to feel light and breezy, 23am is for you. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Ride: Music From The Motion Picture
Record Label: Tommy Boy
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
The big names are all on this album: Dave Hollister, Redman, Erick Sermon, Wu-Tang, Mack 10, Naughty By Nature, and Snoop Doggy Dogg.
Ride is a solid collection of some of America’s finest hip hop artists with a few soul vocalists, and they produce some fine tracks. The standout is the one currently getting airplay, Dave Hollister (featuring Redman and Erick Sermon) with ‘The Weekend” — a smooth tune, full of power and soul. Another track which is quite large at the moment, and features on the album is Naughty By Nature’s ‘Mourn You Till | Join You', which was written in memory of the late Tupac Shakur. 
Many movie soundtracks are light on good quality material, but Ride boasts a fine cross section of America’s current hip hop leaders, making it a surprisingly strong release.
Artist: KYLIE MINOGUE 
Album: Impossible Princess
Record Label: Mushroom
Artist: MADONNA 
Album: Ray Of Light
Record Label: Maverick
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
So how are these 80s icons holding up in the 90s. Well you might just want to roll over in bed and tend to your hangover — like | did when | was craftily assigned this task via the post. But for those of you still reading, Kylie wins in pure pop terms. Madonna wins in artistic terms. Read: Kylie sells — Madonna gets good reviews.
Both are masters of re-invention. Kylie gets a bit of cred by getting James Dean Bradfield from Manic Street Preachers to produce a few tunes — and the resulting ‘Some Kind Of Bliss’ is a bit of a cracker really. The other single ‘Did it Again’ succeeds because of its brilliant video, where Kylie beats up her previous incarnations (pop queen, dance diva etc.). Whereas, Maddy goes for some medieval The Piano - style look on her latest single vid ‘Frozen’. Tattoos and all. Hmm. Dunno ‘bout that really — stylee and all but, well, all a bit Oliver Stone doing U Turn— which was a low budget coolie to prove he’s still got it (not that Maddy’s video is cheap understand — just the trimmed back vibe of this album is aimed at ‘keepin’ it real’). 
Ray of Light is produced by William Orbit, and it’s a lot more mellow groove and English dance than anything Madonna’s done in the past. But for every brilliant and flowing moment, there’s one where she’s gets spiritual and sounds a bit like the Strawpeople. It is a great listening album, and certainly better than her previous efforts, but with no huge anthems here, it's a bit like Michael Jackson coming down from his throne to do a Polka album, simply because it was time to give something back to music. 
So, how do they both fare in today’s cut throat Spice Girls dominated crack-like pop arena with their classic coke hits? Well, they may not be the drug of choice, but they still hit the spot. 
Artist: PEARL JAM 
Album: Yield
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Back at the start of the decade, a gas station clerk-cum-beach bum by the name of Eddie Vedder emerged from his morning surf singing a bunch of words he’s probably wished he never had a few times since. These words changed a Stone Gossard demo called ‘Dollar Short’ into an international hit called ‘Alive’, and before you could say cowabunga too many times, Vedder found he couldn’t even get in a spot of now seemingly ‘much-needed surf practise in a place as remote as the one this magazine is made in. 
It's ironic that Yield's best song should find him back in the same kind of space that inspired ‘Alive’, and such ironies are rife in the lyrics of ‘GTF’s heaven-sent vocal. That it easily manages to come across as more holy than jaded, is its’ crown-of-thorns achievement. ‘ln Hiding’ follows the theme of much-needed seclusion, and boasts another of those mighty vocals that prove you don’t have to have a finely-tuned set of vocal chords to make it in this business (but it sure helps). 
Still, if beauty and wisdom aren’t the first reasons you buy a Pearl Jam album, the balls-to-the-wall rock-outs which regularly kick off each new association with the band, are apparent earliest in the opening track, ‘Brain Of J'. Elsewhere, in the midst of divinity, the humour that brought us ‘Bugs’ also still emerges — rock ‘n’ roll should be fun, and the choral interlude on the fantastic ‘Do The Evolution’ joins an untitled track eight to prove even its most serious practitioners can enjoy themselves. Mind you, being in a band that can pull off the electrifying atmospherics of a song like ‘MFC’ may just be all a man needs to keep his attitude in line. 
It’s nice to know when you turn your ear to one of the biggest bands in the world they can still stuff it with goods worth hearing, then add trimmings like the untitled outtro, to reassure you there’s much more from the depths yet plumbed these guys are capable of. Put Yield at the top of your wish-list if you haven’t bagged it already.
Artist: CORNERSHOP 
Album: When I Was Born For the 7th Time
Record Label: Wiiija
Artist: CATATONIA 
Album: International Velvet 
Record Label: Blanco Y Negro
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Have you heard the one about the Welsh band and the Indian? No, well here they are, testimonies to the current diversity of British popular music. Cornershop cornerstone, Tjinder Singh, claims that When I Was Born, their third album, is merely another step in the band’s strategically planned development. By the year 2000 he reckons he’ll have enough money to retire, and play chess and a bit of cricket. 
He won't be far wrong, because When I Was Born is an engaging and eclectic melting pot of every style that could fit under the rock ‘n’ roll banner. The temptation is to dismiss its cruisier grooves and laid back Jonathan Richman throw-away tunes as insubstantial, but things like the soon-to-be-gigantic single ‘Brimful of Asha’ and ‘Sleep on the Left Side’, are just so goddamn ingratiating. And so are the organic/funky/ambient/dub/ sample moves that make up the other half of the album. And sitars have never sounded so funky. An absolute charmer. 
International Velvet, now wasn’t that the old horsie movie with the budding Liz Taylor in full flight? For Catatonia it's the title of their second album, with the title track sung in Welsh by Cerys Matthews, thanking the Lord she’s Welsh. She’s also a bit of a chameleon searching for the most effective vocal colour, because with a four piece twin guitar pop combo of spirited polish but anonymous competence behind her, the onus is on Matthews to provide the band with some distinguishing features. 
The word is ‘she’s a bit of a hellraiser who’s gonna bust some balls’ in ‘I Am the Mob’. But she’s mostly a singer who’s indebted to the likes of Kate Bush (‘My Selfish Gene’) and Bjork (‘Goldfish and Paracetamol’) rather than an individualist ready or able to lift Catatonia out of the ordinary.
Artist: MUCKHOLE 
Album: Fresh Muck
Record Label: Muck Industries
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
While punk has been blurring into a weak approximation of poppy ska on the US West Coast, and East Coast hardcore has been busy fusing with heavy metal, the year since their debut Kooza has seen local lads Muckhole stay resolutely individual, toning their taut and muscled rhythms, sharpening their hooks, and investing their new songs with an emotional intensity to match the sonic impact.
Superbly played (very quickly, of course) and nicely produced, Fresh Muck is still less immediate than their previous stuff, but it's a harder record with deeper euphony and subtext, and a particular sting in the lyrical barbs. On ‘Broken Record’, the hypocrisy of punker-than-thou purists is addressed; ‘Show me the difference between BMG and Adidas...’, sings Sean O’Brien to those who bristled at Muckhole’s major label distribution while adhering to designer punk fashion; ‘Burning Crosses’ strikes a blow against redneck racism; and ‘Bloodlet’ deals to somebody’s emotionally abusive former lover.
Muckhole have made an excellent album that, right down to the sleeve art, is as relevant locally as any more self-consciously ‘New Zild’ act, and will probably have an across the board appeal to fans of fast music everywhere. 
Artist: KRISTIN HERSH 
Album: Strange Angels
Record Label: 4AD
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL 
Kristin Hersh’s first solo album, 1994’s Hips and Makers, found her stepping out temporarily from her day job as the driving force behind indie-rock legends, Throwing Muses. But Strange Angels marks a more permanent excursion, for the Muses are no more — a victim of mass market indifference and negligible sales, despite years of critical acclaim. 
If the ‘strange angels’ of the title are the ghosts of her former band, Hersh shows no signs of running scared from them. Indeed Strange Angels is a remarkably assured album, trading as it does the desperate edge of Hips and Makers for something noticeably more measured and composed. It’s as if Hersh has found an eye of serenity within her own personal musical maelstrom — a place from which the demons of the past have been successfully exorcised, and an air of upbeat calm pervades. Yet, Strange Angels remains unequivocally a Kristin Hersh album — it's full of the evocative lyricism, off-kilter melodies and lush, almost orchestral soundscapes with which she has made her name. There are countless small moments to savour here, all magically weaving themselves into a seamless, sumptuous whole. As they say, God is in the details. and indie-Goddess Hersh understands this like few others. 
Artist: FU MANCHU 
Album: The Action Is Go
Record Label: Mammoth
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
It's been floating around on import for a few months now, and now the fourth album from valvescorching fuzz abusers Fu Manchu gets a local release — with two additional tracks not found on the USA version. Taking up where the Godzilla EP left off last year, the reshuffled band (exKyuss stickman Brant Bjork and brand new lead guitarist Bob Balch join stalwarts Scott Hill and Brad Davis) ride a rougher terrain than the groovily wasted area that connected Daredevil and In Search Of. The 70s sensibilities still reverb through the songs loud and (un)clear, but this time out the pace is often faster, postures meaner and attitude more (gasp!) punk rock — check out the growl of ‘Evil Eye’, and the gritty ‘Laserblast!’. But these Fu fighters also lazily extend their scope, basking in the exhaust fumes of space rock with ‘Module Overload’, and getting spun out by the hallucinogen haze of ‘Grendel, Snowman’.
So, as luddite as they seem, The Action Is Go is their most innovative album yet — and, most importantly, it signals a return of the theremin to the rock album. Alright! 
Artist: THE CHARLATANS 
Album: Melting Pot
Record Label: Beggars Banquet
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY 
The Charlatans leave Beggars Banquet (hello MCA) with a cracking 17 song, 75 minutes, greatest bits and pieces selected by the band themselves. Whereas most retrospectives suffer from the inconsistencies that B-sides, experimentations, and duff singles have to offer, Melting Pot shows how they’ve developed their seamless boss grooves, from the initial breathtaking flourish of ‘The Only One I Know’ to ‘One To Another’, and ‘North Country Boy’ from last year’s Tellin’ Stories album.
The eponymous debut album from the Stone Roses in 1989 and the Charlatans’ single ‘The Only One | Know’ the following year (with its equally mighty flipside, “Everything Changed”, its omission the only small flaw here), seemed to usher in new possibilities for British rock ‘n’ roll after the post-Smiths’ depression. Since then, their persistence and loyal adherence to the rhythmic and keyboard undertow of Booker T, the Meters, and even Deep Purple’s version of Joe South’s ‘Hush’, have led to the Charlatans being the premier exponents of Britfunk. Proof of that status in the last eight years has been witnessed by ‘Weirdo’, and its staunch USA version Bside ‘Sproston Green’ and ‘Jesus Hairdo’, and the theme from ‘The Wish’ and the Chemical Brothers (when they were the Dust Bros) re-mix of ‘Patrol’. They're all here, and more, in a comprehensive beginner's guide to the real Charlatans. 
Artist: REGURGITATOR 
Album: Unit 
Record Label: East West 
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
These Australian masters of dumb ‘n’ base irony have never done as well in this country as they perhaps deserve, but nor have any of their past releases been as solidly entertaining as Unit, saturated as it is in 80s synth technology, vocoder, and a defiantly anti-postmodern perceptiveness. Full of engaging tunes with new wave and rock rhythms, Regurgitator deal with material that in the hands of lessers may be trite or gimmicky, but which they pull off admirably (no pun intended).
After the opener anticipates the audience’s reaction — ‘I Like Your Old Stuff Better Than Your New Stuff’, the subject matter covers such concerns as toilets (‘I Piss Alone’ and ‘Everyday Formula’), agrophobia (‘The Song Formerly Known As !') and video games (‘Black Bugs’). But most fun is had with ‘The World Of Sleaze’, which contains the catchiest chorus you'll never, ever hear on the radio, and the mock, old school rap boasts of the delightfully-titled ‘I Will Lick Your Arsehole’.
By going out on a limb with the retro-synthpop of Unit, Regurgitator are revealed as being more inventively challenging — and giving less of a shit — than anybody could have previously thought. 
Artist: lAN BROWN 
Album: Unfinished Monkey Business
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
It took the Stone Roses five years to follow up their first album, yet in the past year Mani has been involved in Primal Scream releases, Squire has been prolific with the Seahorses, and now Brown issues his response to the decline and fall of the band who kick-started this decade’s British rock ‘n’ roll revival.
In their lifetime, the Stone Roses became deities, and so their demise was very much a public disintegration. The Seahorses album was a grandstand for Squire’s guitar playing, so he left the acrimony of the Roses split pretty much alone. Brown doesn’t. The title itself could allude to the band’s messy ending, and while the songs aren’t exactly blood on the tracks, there’s an undercurrent of bitterness in some of them that gives the album an undeniable edge.
Assembled and recorded in a low key, do-it-yourself fashion, there are unmistakable signs of Brown’s musical past in the Stone Roses funk of ‘Can’t See Me’ and in the later thick psychedelic chords of ‘What Happened To Ya Part 2’. Squire bashing gets aired on ‘lce Cold Cube’ and in the title track, and is developed in the pointed, plaintive ‘What Happened To Ya Part I°, where Brown appeals ‘Extended vision, distorted dreams/All based on image, it's not all that it seems.’ And who knows what was in his mind when he wrote the haunting, ‘Corpses in Their Mouths’. 
Brown has gone on to claim that the songs aren’t aimed at anyone specific, but it’s hard to take that comment at face value. There’s been a monkey on his back, and ironically, this album is all the more powerful and memorable for it.
Artist: ROYAL CROWN REVUE 
Album: Caught In The Act 
Record Label: Surfdog
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
The rebirth of cool has already spawned a resurgence of lounge culture, but on the whole it’s been the schmaltzy side of Vegas celebrated as yesteryear’s swinging sound of sophistication. Delving a little deeper, Royal Crown Revue have rediscovered the big band bump ‘n’ grind style popularised by the likes of Louis Prima and Sam Butera, and they authentically recreate that period’s jump, jive, and wail on this energetic live recording. 
Running through an uptempo collection of standards, adaptations, and their own compositions, RCR combine shaking rhythms, scat singing, and a sharp horn section, and transport the listener to another era, oozing as much sweat as they do cool style. And while the tight ensemble performance is key throughout their show, the climax of Slim Gaillard’s ‘Poppity Pop Goes the Motorcycle’ allows each musician his solo in the spotlight, briefly showcasing the considerable individual talents that make up the full (on) sound of this seven-piece orchestra. 
Interesting, enjoyable, and it doesn’t even reek of cheesiness or cash-in. 
Artist: VAN HALEN 
Album: 3 
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN
This is actually the 11th studio album from Van Halen, but they called it 3 for a joke, because it's the third version of the band. Anyone worried that the arrival of Gary Cherone might mean that VH turn into a Queen covers band or take a ‘More Than Words’ type direction can now rest easy. These guys still rock with the best of them, and the musicianship is as good as ever.
‘Neworld’, the acoustic guitar/piano intro keeps us guessing where they’re going, but when the first single ‘Without You’ kicks in, you know Van Halen are alive and well and living in the CD player for a while yet. The buzzing of amps during the lead break indicates the general live feel of the whole album, which revolves around Eddie even more than in the past. If anything the new material is less commercial than Van Hagar, as in ‘From Afar’, which is an unusual, menacingly heavy track. ‘Dirty Water Dog’ has that sparkling clean guitar sound that Ed invented and Cherone’s voice suits this sort of song well (at some other times it’s like he’s pushing his range too far). ‘Fire In The Hole’ is a standout rocker that no doubt will be great in concert. 
At eight and a half minutes, ‘Year to the Day’ has to be the longest song VH have recorded, and the whole album is twice the length of the recordings from the Roth years. The best thing about 3 is the diversity of material, especially towards the end. Edward gets some weird sitar sounds on ‘Primary’, plays slide on ‘Ballot or the Bullet’, and even sings lead vocals on the classical final piece, ‘How Many Say I'. 
Judgement should be reserved on this record until it's been heard several times, but basically if you’ve been into Van Halen up to this point you should enjoy it a great deal. 
Artist: GRANDADDY 
Album: Under The Western Freeway
Record Label: V2
Artist: STONY SLEEP 
Album: Music For Chameleons 
Record Label: V2
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Balloonist and disgustingly rich Richard Branson is in the throes of building up the roster of his V2 label by signing a host of potential cutting edge wannabes, with the occasional tried-and-true investment like the recently acquired Underworld. 
Definitely in the former category are Grandaddy and Stony Sleep. Bearded skateboardists from California are your archetypal post-grunge stereotypes, and in appearance that's Grandaddy’s creative force, singer/songwriter/keyboardist Jason Lytle. But as granpappy used to say, appearances are deceptive, son. And that’s surely the case here. 
Lytle’s music isn’t about supercharged guitars and second-hand Tool riffs, his soul is more plugged in to the angst of a Brian Wilson and his backup band, the Beach Boys. Skateboards may have replaced surfboards and Lytle’s songs may be funnelled through a fashionable form of 10-fi lethargy, but like Wilson he often comes across as a disaffected misfit. “Summer here totally lies,” he sings on ‘Summer Here Kids’, while he superbly conveys a sense of isolation in the tonepoem ‘Everything Beautiful Is Far away’, and a Pet Sounds despair on ‘Why I Took Your Advice’. 
Lytle has likened the band to a low-key 90s ELO or as sharing the same stable as Sparklehorse. Whatever their sources of inspiration, Grandaddy are brilliantly made for these times.
Stony Sleep are the labels babes-in-arms. Averaging at the ripe old age of 18, let’s meet the London trio’s precociously gifted vocal/guitar /songwriter Ben Smith. By the age of 12, Ben had read most of literature’s classics, so the bio goes, and he had enough literary sophistication to name this debut album after Truman Capote’s anthology of short stories. So how come his lyrics are crap poetry? And his songs also can’t measure up to the quality of his early reading habits. 
Claims have been made that they’re influenced by the Pixies amongst others. Fair comment since 11 out of the 12 songs here attempt at having the same concussive impact as Boston’s finest, but they fail. At best Stony Sleep could be this decade’s Violent Femmes, and that’s not much to aspire to. Better songs, less attitude, urgently needed.
Artist: SPACESUIT 
Album: Spacesuit 
Record Label: Spacesuit
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Apparently some sort of arkestra-styled collaboration, with four musicians from the rock, jazz, and art worlds, letting loose on musical equipment and electronics, Spacesuit’s debut blasts off for a budget size 23 tunes. For the most part, Spacesuit resemble 80s art school ‘free’ jazz exponents Rip Rig And Panic, or our own Six Volts. When they don’t want to constrain the guitarist anymore, things get decidedly weird and border on Scratch Acid/Jesus Lizard Texan punk ramblings. God, I'm not too sure about this one, small doses seemed to be most appropriate, otherwise my head began to emit sparks, electricity comes from other planets! 
Artist: KID WITH MAN HEAD 
Album: Flapjack Hairpiece 
Record Label: Onefoot
Artist: STONED 
Album: Ed’s Diner
Record Label: Onefoot
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
More stuff from the prolific-if-nothing-else world of Onefoot Records. But wait! Kid With Man Head have come up with the best thing I've heard on the label. Coming from the same melodic space as most of their cohorts, somehow they’ve broken the mold and twisted it into their own thing. What they’ve got over the majority of labelmates is frantic energy, decent vocal harmonies, and some original guitar ideas. A Details mag comparison to the Foo Fighters is not far off the mark, as melodically KWMH certainly have a similar power to Grohl’s compositions. 
Just like fellow Swedes, No Fun At All and Millencolin, Stoned have substance to their lyrics, and more adrenalin than you can shake 10 sticks at. This is charged up, heads down emo-core with a positive message of happiness. Up the Onefoots, this is good stuff. 
Artist: JAZ COLEMAN/YOUTH/LONDON PHILHARMONIC ORCHESTRA 
Album: Kashmir: Symphonic Led Zeppelin 
Record Label: Point
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN 
In the same vein as Us And Them: Symphonic Pink Floyd, this is basically Zeppelin without the Led. The magic in their music was created by Page, Plant, Jones, and -Bonham themselves, so the fact that none of them were involved in this project questions its credibility. However it is a far cry from those Classic Rock things from the 80s, with some nice Eastern themes and effects to embellish the orchestral interpretations (like the phasing used in ‘Friends’). Much of it is copied from the arrangements on the brilliant No Quarter album, and they’ve even got in one of the same Egyptian musicians.
If nothing else, Kashmir does reaffirm the strength of these compositions and how well they’ve stood the test of time. Of course, a version is included of the famous song that recently got voted the most popular song to play at a West Auckland funeral. 
Easy listening and DDD buffs will enjoy this, but the rest of us would rather wait for the new Jimmy Page and Robert Plant album. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Jazz A Saint-Germain 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
Odd concept this — a tribute album to the free-spirited Paris of the 1950s — a period typified by the nascent jazz scene centred in Paris’ Saint-Germain des Pres quartier. Now, I'm no jazz neophyte, but neither does tuning into the jazz show on bFM and owning a couple of dozen jazz albums qualify me as an expert in the field. But, if a little knowledge is a dangerous thing, at least | don’t bring with me the blinkered perspective of the factionalised jazz obsessive. I'll judge the tracks herein on their own merits, rather than viewing them as sacrilegious outrages to beloved jazz standards.
Highlights amongst the albums 14 tracks include Francois Hardy and Iggy Pop’s croonilicious duet on ‘l'll Be Seeing You’, Jane Birkin’s fragile ‘These Foolish Things’, Jacky Torrasson’s virtu--oso take on ‘La Javanaise’, Eli Medeiros’s deconstructed, percussion-heavy ‘Sophisticated Lady’, and China’s ‘Lover Man’, which perhaps best captures the feel of that original Parisian scene. 
Whether Jazz A Saint-Germain manages to evoke the mood of the bohemian jazz underbelly of Paris in the 1950s is open to debate, but as a stand-alone album of (sometimes radical) interpretations of jazz standards, it is largely successful and in a few rare instances, utterly compelling.
Artist: BIG BLUE BLANKET 
Album: Everytime You Smile 
Record Label: Hit Your Head
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM 
Hastings trio Big Blue Blanket play “chaos/ska/punk/rock ‘n’ roll roots,” apparently. That is to say, they play an approximation of American West Coast pop/punk, a very saleable commodity at present. Loud, raucous guitars with annoying New Zild vocals, and not that much ska. ‘Everytime You Smile’ begins promisingly, but-unfortunately doesn’t hold its six and a half minute length well. Then there’s the messy 11 minutes of ‘Dropping Off’, which is all over the place, like some misdirected 70s prog rock band jamming out punk. Ever heard of appropriate duration? Noooo. The noisy stuff is mostly good, especially ‘Shut Up’ and ‘Vacation’, although there’s nothing new happening here.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Earwig & Stinkbug
Record Label: Earwig
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
On offer here, 13 bands associated by recording in the wiles of North Shore suburban lawns (Earwig Studios) flex their musical abs. For the most part it's fine if not angular pop music with a couple of exceptions into the pot for a headier brew. 
At the pop end of the spectrum, Lure of Shoes’ ‘Elsewhere’ gets a big thumbs up for its San Fran/Able Tasman styled instrumentality, while at the weird end, the impressive live showings of the Remote Controls are reflected in the early Fall of ‘Discolouration Maude’. In between AK DK follow their bFM ‘Suitcase’ hit with another onslaught titled ‘Dead Ahead’, and Honey Barbara show what a great voice (do | hear Jeffrey Lee Pierce in there) and a good song can do for your soul on ‘Sold Out'. 
I'd hate to say that Earwig is a graveyard for bands, but at least five of the bands featured here don’t exist anymore. But getting to have my personal copy of the sweetness and fight of ‘Furry Collar’ by Fitch, not to mention Gaunt Pudding, Figure 60 etc., is at least a better tombstone than most (short-lived) bands will get. A well rounded sampler of local delights. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Noisyland 2
Record Label: Noiseworks
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
“The main reason we all work from our bedrooms in the first place is because in most cases the idea of working in a studio is both financially and creatively out of reach. We basically have to do it ourselves or not to do it at all.” — Peter Wright.
This quote, from the slick of Noisyland 2, could have been the manifesto of New Zealand DIY music makers from Flying Nun’s beginning onwards. Nun recordings sold simply on the reputation of the label, such was the consistency of their releases. Now, many musicians replicate one or another Flying Nun artist ad nauseam, whilst bemoaning the lack of ‘support’ or ‘recognition. What they want is Government support for their music habit, and an adoring audience to legitimise their rock star pretensions. The unfortunate truth for many of these people is that their music is shit and will rightfully never be given any credit. The good stuff here is Lung, Clear, Rotorua’s the Altar, and the Napier bands. Echojar are Shihad plagiarists, the Poppies are their usual mediocre selves. The rest require no further comment from me. www.noisyland2.nz :
Artist: The Beach Boys
Album: The Pet Sounds Sessions
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Even after all this time, the Beach Boys 1966 album Pet Sounds still stands out as a remarkable work of visionary genius. The story goes that after heading the Beatles’ Rubber Soul, Brian Wilson felt challenged to make an album as progressive and unified (ironically, Paul McCartney was so knocked Over by Pet Sounds that Sgt Peppers was his answer fo it), so he set about composing, arranging, orchestrating, and producing would - at the age of 23 - be his masterpiece; a work that surpassed the ‘little symphonies’ of his hero Phil Spector, with its sophistication, artistic purity and accessibility.
Wiison had retired from touring In 1965 to concentrate of songwriting (he was replaced live by Glen Campbell, before the Rip Chords’ Bruce Johnston signed up full time), and while the band toured the world singing about California girls, Wilson was beginning the transition from the sunny, good time beach tunes that consistently topped the charts, to compositions of deeper emotional resonance and complexity - already evident on parts of that year’s … Today album.
Even so, it was still a huge and unpredictable leap for a young hitmaker to from the appealing, teenage pop of ‘Little Deuce Coupe’ and ‘Fun, Fun, Fun’, to the mature and accomplished ‘I Just Wasn't Made For These Times' and ‘Don't Talk', in such a short space of time. Wilson fused the Beach Boys’ harmonic vocal style with a dynamic, classical approach to pop (he was a big admirer of Beethoven), that was, like most works of genius, ahead of its time and under-appreciated on release. Pet Sounds caught Wilson at his creative peak, before the breakdown that disrupted the artistic flow of his muse, and the planned follow up to Pet Sounds, the abandoned Smile sessions (amongst other things, he believed his music was precipitating actual events, and destroyed many master tapes).
This box set is nothing less than a goldmine for those already enrapt by Pet Sounds. You find the first ‘true’ stereo version of the album, mixed with the original masters, and a remastered mono mix of even greater clarity than the 1990 CD reissue. And that's just the beginning. There are two discs worth of tracking date highlights, that sharply bring in focus both the superb musicianship of the Wrecking Crew (the ace session players also used by Spector), and the attention to detail that Wilson gave each element of the piece during its formation. And although it was absent from the album, the first takes of ‘Good Vibrations’ were at these sessions, and are present here.
The real treat, of course, is the alternate versions of finished material — ‘God Only Knows’ with Brian singing lead; a shuffled verse order on ‘Wouldn't It Be Nice', which also has a slightly different bridge; and a real revelation in the changed pitch of ‘Caroline No’. At its original speed it’s slower and sadder, forcing re-evaluation of this familiar piece in the way it was originally intended. Elsewhere you can hear Wilson asking an engineer if he can bring a horse in the studio, his brothers Carl and Dennis recording Radio promos with tongue firmly in cheek, and outtakes of of Banana and Louie (the two dogs whose barking closes the album).
This marvellous 4CD set offers a whole new look at Pet Sounds, and comes with over 150 pages of interviews and liner notes, making it a thoroughly worthwhile project that even newcomers will be thrilled by.