Artist: KEVIN SAUNDERSON PRESENTS
Album: X-Mix Transmission From Deep Space Radio 
Record Label: K7
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
A solid collection of Techno and Hard House chosen and mixed by Kevin Saunderson, one of Detroit Techno’s founding fathers. This double album compilation was inspired by Deep Space Radio, a mid 90s show on Detroit’s WGPR 107.5, conceived by Juan Atkins, that aimed to showcase cutting edge dance music. Saunderson was one of the many influential DJs/producers who contributed regularly to the show.
This compilation features many notable Techno names such as Plastikman, Outlander, and EDancer. There’s some classic tracks available here, including Plastikman’s ‘Spastik’, which should be in any serious Techno aficionados collection.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: LA Yellow Collection
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Mostly Breakbeat/Jazz fusions are featured throughout this album, which features the best in French Breakbeat culture. The contributors on this album all present pieces of sophisticated listening. With this album spinning on the platter, I imagined myself chillin’ out, smoking a cigar in a dimly lit cafe somewhere in France. LA Yellow Collection (aside from the unnecessary intro) is silky smooth and full of unexpected delights. Oh yes.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: The Freestyle Files / New Beat Science
Record Label: K 7
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Another double album, this time a collection of Trip Hop, Drum and Bass, and other numerous forms of break beat culture. Most styles of Breakbeat culture can be heard on this eclectic album, which also features elements of Latino, Jazz, and Electro. Artists such as Coldcut, Jedi Knights, Basement Jaxx, and Terranova, contribute to make compilation a worthwhile acquisition.
Artist: THE PROPELLERHEADS 
Decksanddrumsandrockandroll
Record Label: Wall Of Sound
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
The coolest album title of the year, from one of the most anticipated dance albums of the year. And after such killer single releases last year, and such stunning remixes, you can’t blame the critics forgetting excited. 
So here’s the bad news. The singles are the stand outs, which makes the rest sound like fillers. The song order is infuriating, going from pumpin’ to mellow, pumpin’ to mellow, and back again. And the tracklisting looks like Wall Of Sound just wanted to get something out to capitalise on the ’Heads growing success as quickly as they could.
But, when you open with the outstanding ‘Take California’, and along the way you come across ‘Spybreak’, and their thumping re-working of ‘On Her Majesty’s Secret Service’ - you can’t go wrong. Then, the triumphant, brain boggling, Shirley Bassey led ‘History Repeating’ breaks down genres and revs up an absolute anthem.
What you’re left with is ‘Echo and Bounce’, which shuffles like a 1920 s Charleston. ‘Velvet Pants’ which has got some killer bass and the catchiest of their samples. There’s the laidback, ‘Oh yeah?’ that features some spectacular Rhodes, slappin’ bass, and a cool skateboard sample. The flanging, squealing, leccy guitar and Batman bass of .‘Bang On!’, and the pacey ‘Cominagetcha’, both kick several different types of ass. It’s exciting stuff, but if you know you’re good, you know you can be better. And the Propellerheads know they’re good. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Something For Everybody
Record Label: EMI. 
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
There is no disputing the title of this compilation from Bazmark ’ Inq(better known to you as Baz Luhrmann, director of. Strictly Ballroom and Romeo and Juliet, but previously known to Australians as. an innovative theatre director, with radical . reworkings of Hair, and the operas A Midsummer Night’s Dream, and La Bo me, under his belt), but in filling this hefty promise, it suffers in the same ways the second Romeo and Juliet soundtrack album did — coming off as motley, and not suited to any particular audience at all. In addition, there are some fairly low moments in music included, with Tara Morice’s take on Cyndi Lauper’s ‘Time After Time (The SFE Version)’ being about as low as I’d care to mention. 
Still, buy this and you’ll get the best bunch of advice ever dished out in the space of one song, thanks to ‘Everybody’s Free (To Wear Sunscreen) Mix’. With Australian actor Lee Perry’s spoken words coming courtesy of Chicago Tribune journalist Mary Schmich (via being passed off as Kurt Vonnegut’s graduation speech by some hoax playing net surfer), the story behind the track is almost as interesting as the collection of tips within it. It’s also a number sweetly strange enough to excuse the excesses that have let the success of the original Romeo and Juliet Soundtrack make it three spaces wide on your soundtrack rack.
Artist: BREAKS CO-OP 
Album: Roofers 
Record Label: Deepgrooves
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
Zane Lowe, talented bastard that he is, has re-invented himself to give us an ultimate laid back coupling of the drum and the bass. From gorgeously simple sample led jazz, to freaky hip hop flavours, to mellow stripped back vibes, that haven’t been handled with such deft finesse since Massive Attack’s Blue Lines. Breaks Co-op handle it all, and they handle it bloody well. 
It’s a strange comparison I know, but Roofers sounds so crisp and warm and powerful, that its only real local soulmate in terms of depth and feel is something as epic as Crowded House’s Together Alone. You’ll fall for the drum and bass of ‘Perpetual Breath’, but when you play it at the end of your night just before sunrise, you’ll totally succumb to the expansiveness of its simplistic 1 majesty. Breaks have mastered an intimate spaciousness. Like a musical Tardis that gets bigger with every step you take inside. 
The first single 'Sound Advice’ has Archive’s Londinium stamped all over it, with powerfully morose female vocals blending perfectly with the almost Guru sounding rap of Hamish Clarke. Later, with ‘Let Your Hair Down’, the beats up the ante.
Towards the album’s end, ‘Live at Lister’ loses its lustre, but only because you’re greedily starting to take it all for granted, hungry for a more extreme high. Then ‘Charging Depths’ comes in with some drum and bass scapes, like a strobed beach walk in the middle of the night. And ‘Such the Spot’ levels you with a sax drenched, shagadelic jazz aphrodisiac. Finishing up with the second single, ‘Transistor’, featuring Jordan Reyne which is fulfilling, but leaves you wishing there was a bit more to it. 
Roofers is a must own piece of brilliance. The best album to come out of New Zealand in 1998 (already). Can’t wait for more. 
Artist: RAMONES 
Album: We’re Outta Here
Record Label: Radioactive
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
On August 6, 1996, after 2263 shows over the previous 22 years, the Ramones said their last ‘Hey Ho Let’s Go!’ and called it a day. We’re Outta Here documents that final concert. 
Of course, nothing much really changed with the Ramones, who never deviated far from their simple and effective formula — no frills, no showboating, and the same handful of chords that served them well for over 14 albums. They refused to grow old (or even grow up), the furious jackhammer pace showing no sign of slowing up with age — and although Joey Ramone may miss a few words here and there,they were certainly not in danger of fading away. 
We’re Outta Here celebrates everything that’s exciting about the Ramones without the poignant sting of finality, and the set list includes all the essentials; ‘Blitzkrieg Bop’, ‘I Wanna Be Sedated’, ‘Rock ‘n’ Roll High School’ and 29 others — assisted by guest appearances from members of Rancid and Soundgarden, Motorhead’s Lemmy, Eddie Vedder, and prodigal son Dee Dee Ramone. This album even stands up well against their 1976 classic It’s Alive, and it’s as good a place as any to end. Long live the Ramones!
Artist: AIR 
Album: Moon Safari 
Record Label: Source
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
If you’re a taker. for a ticket to a groovier place, stop right here and sign up for Moon Safari. Within seconds you’ll be coming over all 2001, for 'La Femme D’Argent”s sublime lift off. The curvaceous (thanks to guest vocalist Beth Hirsch) ‘Sexy Boy’ is the sound you’d wish upon the ears of any weary bladerunner after a hard day’s bounty hunting. ‘All I Need’ is about as close to earth as the French pair known as Air care to fly, and even then it’s touching down near that strange place we know as Portishead. You get the feeling they’re much happier when doing the HAL thing on tracks like the sci-fi symphony ‘Remember’, or ‘Kelly, Watch the Stars’ — and you’ll be much happier hearing them do it. 
My recommendation is you hit your nearest expanse of green some starry night soon, get horizontal, and ‘watch the stars’ for maximum unravelling pleasure. 
Artist: DIMITRI FROM PARIS 
Album: Sacrebleu 
Record Label: East West
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Well, France has moved from their musical position of only-good-at-the-Eurovision-Song-Contest, to the dance Mecca at the mo’. There’s Daft Punk, stirring up the floors with their Source Lab pals. Air, the minimalist mood merchants, who will be drifting into your sub-conscious soon enough with their delicious Moon Safari album. And tagging along is a bunch from the Yellow label, like the splifftastic Kid Loco, and dinky Dimitri. Dimitri is apparently a cracker DJ about the place, but when he gets down to recording his albums, he goes all dancey Lounge. Which I don’t mind at all — sip on a Vodkatini, puff on a Cuban, and talk extensively about your new hi-fidelity system, and I’m right with ya. But whereas the American rebirth of lounge (thank you Swingers and co.) is all about the cool, Dimitri’s lounge (maybe it’s a French thing) is more, well, geeky Safari suits bopping about, and cultivating an Inspector Clouseau moustache. Two years ago, it would have been laughable. Today, it’.s a nice variation, and the logical progression for those lounge/dance crossover junkies. There’s hits in the form of ‘Sacre Francais’ and ‘Dirty Larry’, cool funk in ‘Free Ton Style’, and a lurve making tune in the form of ‘Nothing to Lose’. Interestingly enough, there’s a ‘ba be da be dup’ sample in ‘Reveries’ that the Strawpeople used not so long ago. 
It’s all groovy stuff, but be quick, ’cause 70s funk is about to be the new bandwagon of cool again. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Hate Your Neighbours 
Record Label: Pussy Muncher
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Auckland entrepreneur John Baker returns with what must be one of the most interesting documents of early New Zealand punk. There’s the obligatory well worn inclusions of the Scavengers, Proud Scum, Toy Love, and the Suburban Reptiles, but they only make up seven of the 18 tracks on Hate Your Neighbours. The balance are forgotten live to air tracks (the Primmers bitching about hippies on ‘Love Sprouts’), b-sides (the Features’ ‘Police Wheels’, the Spelling Mistakes’ ‘Hate Me Hate Me’), and scratchy demos dug out from behind dusty foreign couches (the Scavengers’ ‘Routine’, Smashed Executive’s ‘TV’, and Nocturnal Projections’ ‘My Neighbours’). Also uncovered are the preFeatures band, the Superettes, a dig into the Wellington zone with the Steroids’ ‘Out Of Control’, and Baker’s favourite Detroit rockers, the Dum Dum Boys, and the Henchmen. The only disappointment here is the lack of decent liner notes, instead you have to wade through press clippings reproduced in California orange. Otherwise it’s bloody good. 
Artist: LEONARD NIMOY/ WILLIAM SHATNER 
Album: Spaced Out! The Very Best Of... 
Record Label: MCA
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Now here’s an oddity, the long lost songs of some old starship troupers. Back in the 60s, the actors who played Star Trek’s Captain Kirk and Mr Spock were somehow convinced to launch singing careers, and the mixed results can be sampled on this compilation. 
William Shatner (Kirk) recorded The Transformed Man, and it remains one of the most perplexing errors of judgement ever made by anyone. He takes on Shakespeare, the Beatles, and Bob Dylan, in truly bizarre fashion, and seriously over-reaches himself in attempting spoken word with crazy orchestral, muzak and pop backing. His inappropriate phrasing and strange elocution is hilarious, and Shatner’s version of ‘Mr Tambourine Man’ is so horrendous, it must be heard to be believed. 
Nimoy, on the other hand, could sing. While his first efforts were novelty affairs in Vulcan character (‘Highly Illogical’, ‘Music to Watch Space Girls By’), he soon shook off the shackles of Spock to croon covers of pop (‘Put a Little Love in Your Heart’), protest (‘lf I Had a Hammer’) and folk (‘lf I Was a Carpenter’) tunes, which work splendidly. Sadly, these songs probably wouldn’t have seen the light of day if he’d never worn the pointy ears, and that’s perhaps the same reason his earnest warblings were never taken seriously. 
Artist: COKEHEAD HIPSTERS
Album: How Far Will You Go?
Record Label: Carnage
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
This four piece from Japan play rabid punk rock that owes a lot of favours to the Epitaph stable. They mention the Voodoo Glow Skulls, Mighty Mighty Bosstones, Fishbone, and Bodyjar — which should give some indication as to where they’re coming from. 
How Far Will You Go? is all pretty happy, with some skewed ska and brass showing up. There’s even a cover of the Buggies ‘Video Killed the Radio Star’, which is far better than it should be. Recorded in New York, the album has the tight and crunchy sound synonymous with 90s punk. And although the anthemic, sing-a-long choruses are very Offspring, the Cokehead Hipsters maintain a fun naivety that is endearing. Definitely worth a spin or three. 
Artist: VICTOR DIMISICH BAND 
Album: My Name Is K 
Record Label: Medication
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
The second retrospective release from Medication traces the brief recorded history of Christchurch’s Victor Dimisich Band, and for the most part is a fair facsimile of the excellent Mekong Delta Blues cassette, released by Xpressway in the late 80s. The original Flying Nun EP, and live tracks, all demonstrate a burgeoning independence locally of what was going on in the northern hemisphere at the time, looking directly to the 60s for Velvet inspiration and garage perspiration. The ability of the Victor Dimisich Band to evoke strange rumblings in the psyche two decades later is something to experience. I suggest you experience it if you haven’t already. 
Artist: DEAD IMAGE 
Album: Metallic OK 
Record Label: Raw Power
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
This vinyl only release compiles the best of early 80s legends Dead Image, arguably the toughest sounding band to ever crawl out of Auckland’s gutters, and pick up guitars. Along with fellow Detroit-worshippers the Henchmen (later to become Reptiles At Dawn), Dead Image were this country’s answer to Australia’s Radio Birdman, but they were no limp copyists — snarling vocals that would’ve knocked Iggy on his ass, a beefy rhythm section, and white-hot bullets of guitar, took the Detroit sound and beat the shit out of it. The studio tracks from the long deleted Orswell in 1984 EP, particularly their calling card ‘Change for a Change’, are brutal slices of metal-tinged punk rock overflowing with attitude, and it’s inconceivable that there wasn’t a spate of imitators, or a re-release before now. 
Live, they packed a thrilling and inspired punch that is as evident now as at the raucous — and frequently dangerous — shows of the era, and the second side of this album is a taste of the barely-controlled chaos of Dead Image at their youngest, loudest and snottiest — before they fell apart, and a couple of them became the Warners. The rest, of course, is history.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Down Under Ground Volume 2 
Record Label: T.O.A.N. Productions
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM 
This handy little comp features the talents and otherwise of 16 Australian acts — all from the underground, strangely enough. Dark, heavy, scary, and weird, this is the music around which a huge, global zine network exists, as most of this stuff will never achieve a wider audience. On DUG Vol. 2 there’s a fairly common thread of heavy guitars with samples, electronic beats, and eerie ambience, often near Skinny Puppy/FLA territory. The occasional female vocal (Troll, Zeitgeist) are welcome breaks from the male assault, both bands having gothic overtones. With little bio material available, it’s impossible to elaborate about Down Under Ground. Suffice to say that this compilation, along with fellow extreme Australian acts like Damaged and Public Hanging, represent a healthy and thriving covert scene over the Tasman. 
Artist: 2 FOOT FLAME 
Album: Ultra Drowning 
Record Label: Matador
Artist: MECCA NORMAL 
Album: ?Who Shot Elvis? 
Record Label: Matador
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Two releases demonstrating the individual singing talent of Jean Smith. In Two Foot Flame she teams up with husband Peter Jefferies, and another of our exports, Michael Morley. Experimenting on the pain threshold levels of mild mannered folk, Smith sings/screeches over all the tracks in a tortured chanteuse vein, a cross between Eartha Kitt, Marianne Faithful, and a slowly dying animal with considerable lung capacity. Instrumentally, things drone on just fine. Not a record for high volumes in glass encased neighbourhoods. 
I’ve kept a safe distance from the next ensemble for a number of years, but felt a further dip into Canadian waters wasn’t going to hurt. Mecca Normal, Smith’s long serving duet with David Lester, swings from acoustic folkie numbers to the electrical works burger, stylistically more Sunday listening friendly than Two Foot Flame. Ms Smith tones down an octave or two, for which my glassware was truly thankful. Otherwise I’m still not convinced, but only my hearing and my flatmate are cursing me. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Chemical Lifestyle 
Record Label: Dance Net
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
There’s a lot of these big beat compilations around at the moment — confusing if you’re looking for a way in. And so many of them have the Chemical Brothers and the Propellerheads featured, therefore you’ve at least got some idea of what you’re in for. 
Here, the Chem’s deliver yet again with their remix of the Charlatans’ ‘Nine Acre Dust’, and the Propellerheads’ ‘Big Dog’ probably should’ve made it on to their album. As for the rest? White Trash’s ‘Acid People’ would be lying to your face if it didn’t admit to hearing the Prod’s ‘Voodoo People’ one too many times. Terminal Head infuse a bit of roots rhydims into the genre. The Freestylers sound like Bomb The Bass circa Into the Dragon. Aldo Bender’s always worth his salt in the acid house ‘nnn tss nnn tss’ department, and ‘Enlightenment’ is a groover. Laid back provide an average remix of ‘Wrecktify’ (but do check out . their own album International), and finally, the Propellerheads, mix up a pretty plain version Mono’s ‘Life in Mono’.
All in all a bit average, with no stand out gems, and no real flow that would let you chuck it on and let the party go. Just another compilation to add to your collection. 
Artist: HEADBUTT 
Album: Crankenstein
Record Label: Head Muzak
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM 
From the ashes of oldie NZ metallers Confessor, Headbutt have slowly ground their way towards this, their first album. Crankenstein is a good and hard tribute to the year’s they’ve put into it, a first rate heavy riff fest, that would surely do the business in a pub. Coming from the real metal school, with a few other flavours tossed in, Headbutt have come up with the wet dream album of suburban teenage males across New Zealand. That is to say, Crankenstein expresses the kind of pent up frustration and the unrequited feeling that comes from loving one’s car too much. The kind of album that will get you kicked out of your very first flat after a week and one party, crawling back to the parental abode in search of sympathy. Or maybe it’s just loud and obnoxious local rock from a damn good three piece.
Artist: PINK NOISE TEST 
Album: IPlasticized
Record Label: Interscope
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
It’s refreshing to hear something from California with so little connection to any ‘scene’, and Redondo Beach’s Pink Noise Test are a mixed bag of visionary pop influences and musical trainspotting. 
They may be responsible for some of the best songs the Jesus and Mary Chain never wrote — all distorted guitars, fuzz bass, and lazy surf harmonies — thus reclaiming for the West Coast the amphetamine-burned sound that the J & MC stole in the first place. But they delve deeper into their record collections than that for inspiration; ‘As Pretty Does’ conjures up the spirit of Brian Wilson’s long departed muse; ‘Blunt’ approximates a Van Dyke Parks arrangement of a lovely, whimsical tune; and they cover the Velvet’s ‘I Can’t Stand It’, which they dirty up nicely. 
You get the impression that this is surf music played by Redondo Beach boys who never see the sun, as they’re too busy locked away pouring over scratchy 45s —- with MTV blaring in the background — creating a classy synthesis of found ideas and current sounds. 
Artist: GROK 
Album: Bubbles 
Record Label: DEDear
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
A 12 track album from Hamilton’s best export since the Human Lawnmowers. No track listing received, so it’s an impossibility to give you a blow by blow account, but for the most part, these four likely lads sound akin to early, psychedelic Puddle. Grok explore sound (jam) for the first few songs, which border on indulgence, but for the remaining songs, they put forth a strong argument for absorbing every local (and German/Kraut rock) influence of an independent existence (read Flying Nun pre 1990), regurgitating it and having a good time in the process.
Artist: Various
Album: ISLAND 40th (1959— 1999) Vol. 1964—69: Rhythm & Blues Heat
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
This series is compiled by Island founder Chris Blackwell who recently left the label after criticising the Polygram boss in the Los Angeles Times. Well, Blackwell has compiled a magical collection of songs here from 1964 to 1969, mixing the label’s rootsy Jamaican productions with USA soul hits and UK recordings such as the Spencer Davis Group. There are big hits like Desmond Dekker’s ‘lsraelites’ and Inez Foxx’s ‘Mockingbird’ and more obscure tracks from Jackie Edwards, the Pioneers and Harry J’s All Stars. The original versions of the Paragons’ ‘The Tide Is High’ (Blondie) and Bob & Earl’s ‘Harlem Shuffle’ (Rolling Stones) are excellent. My fave find here is Roy C’s ‘Shotgun Wedding’ with its “digitally remastered” surround-sound shotgun blasts. What unites this record is not a single style or a single source but a single vision of one Chris Blackwell to record and sell some fabulous music. This Vol.2 is as perfect as 20 songs on one CD can get. I bet that the Volumes to come, even if they’ve got Bob Marley on them, will not match this one. By the way, when this series first appeared in stores you got a free t-shirt, but the “large” size was like a halter top on me.
Artist: Various
Album: BEST OF LOMA RECORDS Rise & Fall of a 1960s Soul Label
Record Label: Warner Archive
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
This two CD set features 50 largely obscure soul tracks by 22 . different artists from a label founded by Warner Music in 1964 to rival the Motown sound. Artists featured include Ike & Tina Turner, the Marvellos, the Enchanters, Linda Jones and J.J. Jackson. Some of Loma’s finest moments are better known as cover versions. The Olympics’ ‘Good Lovin” was later recorded by the Rascals and Lorraine Ellison’s ‘Try (Just A Little Bit Harder)’ was popularised by Janis Joplin. One of the real gems here is Lorraine Ellison’s ‘Stay With Me’ with its lush Jerry Ragovoy production. This session with a 45-piece orchestra only happened when Frank Sinatra did a no show and someone had to use the band. Roy Redmond is my favourite find on this compile. There are some great tracks here and some artists went on to success elsewhere after they left Loma, but it is surprising that the label did last beyond its fourth year. But as Russ Regan, Loma’ boss 1964 to 1966 says, “You can be underfinanced, and still win in the record business. But the trick is, you have to be lucky.”
Artist: THE BLUESTARS 
Album: THE BLUESTARS 
Record Label: Zero
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
Once again John Baker has compiled an excellent reissue from the 60s from a band who played around Auckland from 1965 to 1967 but were not “household names” like Larry’s Rebels etc. The nine original tracks here include the much hyped ‘Social End Product’ which is worthy of the praise bestowed on it by Baker and fellow believers. ‘I Can Take It’ and ‘Please Be A Little Kind’ are also strong. ‘Sherlock Sweet’ is a cool instrumental. The bandmembers include pro-photographer Murray Savidan and television director John Harris. For the Bluestars to miss out on “household names” status, the local studios and labels must have been too busy covering foreign hits to see the future in bands writing their own songs.
Artist: JACKIE BROWN 
Album: JACKIE BROWN 
Record Label: Maverick / A Band Apart
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
This is the first release on Tarantino’s movie soundtrack label A Band Apart (via Madonna’s Maverick label) and it is. has some great and not so great moments. The best find here is the original Bill Withers version of ‘Who Is He (And What Is He To You)’ and Bloodstone are always great and so are the Delfonics with ‘Didn’t I Blow Your Mind This Time’. The weak tracks are actress Pam Grier and the ever shrill Minnie Ripperton. Sexploitation movies produced so much great music it’s a pity that the return of Pam Grier doesn’t have a soundtrack to suit the occasion. But with the cult of Tarantino, maybe the movie will give the soundtrack legs. 
Artist: THE DELLS 
Album: On Their Corner: Best Of 
Record Label: Chess
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
These guys started in 1953 and they just keep on going. ‘Stay In My Corner’ and ‘Oh What A Night’ are in the American Grafitti groove but I dig the more uptempo soul stuff like ‘Wear It On Our Face’ (1968) or ‘Learning to Love You Was Easy’ (1974). My vote for one of the most soulful vocalists of all time is the Dells’ lead baritone Marvin Junior. This guy’s voice is sort gruff like Levi Stubbs but warm . like Marvin Gaye. This 18 song compile takes you from doo-wop to soul and proves that Chess were not just a blues label. This “50th Anniversary Legendary Masters Series” is mid-price in NZ so look for the cute digi-pak with the booklet et al. By the way, the last Dells hit was ‘A Heart Is Not A House’ in 1991. 
Artist: FONTELLA BASS 
Album: Rescued: Best Of 
Record Label: Chess
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
The sweet soul voice of Fontella Bass is best known for her essential soul classic ‘Rescue Me’, a truly timeless song with a beautiful melody. Bass is not just a one hit wonder, she is right on the money on every soulful track collected here. My faves include the four duets with Bobby McClure including the popular song ‘Don’t Mess Up a Good Thing’. Also very cool is ‘The Soul Of A Man’ and the Motown influenced tracks such as ‘I Surrender’. To my ears this 16 track compile is vastly superior to the Etta James collection in this Chess series. Where has this great talent been since the 60s? Bass has recorded gospel and travelled the world with jazz trumpeter husband Lester Bowie.
Artist: RARE EARTH 
Album: Earthtones: The Essential 
Record Label: Motown
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
Rare Earth were the white guys from Detroit that Motown hoped to sell to the Woodstock generation on a label called “Rare Earth” that also signed the Pretty Things and Love Sculpture from England. Not typical Motown fare but Berry Gordy’s plan worked initially for the band Rare Earth as their debut album Get Ready sold three million copies hot on the heels of the radio success of the title track, a cover of a Temptations song. This collection is a must for hammond organ / moog fans as ‘Get Ready’ clocks in at 21.33 and another Motown remake ‘(I Know) I’m Losing You’ is a healthy 10.57 and grooves like ‘Warm Ride’ begat Average White Band (and Wild Cherry). These nine lengthy songs are gloriously digitally remastered and these 12 inch versions just fit on one CD and proves that white boys can get funky and can solo on more things than just guitars. God like playing, every track is glorious. By the way I found this reissue gem in Echo Records in the South Island on the cheap tables.