MO BETTER BEATS
Artist: JANET Jackson
Album: The Velvet Rope 
Record Company: Virgin
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
By now you know the single ‘Got Til It’s Gone’ featuring Q-Tip and sampling Joni Mitchell. It’s a good indicator of the album, ie. quite diverse and definitely more adult — albeit with a slightly pop edge. That’s probably because of Janet’s distinctive vocal style. She sounds like such a sweetheart — but the inner sleeve photos reveal more than one tattoo and what looks like a pierced nipple! And then, of course the photo of her on her back, hands bound with the velvet. rope... but let’s not dwell on the image. Musically the album is shit hot, Jam and Lewis again providing magnificent production. Janet writes her own lyrics too, and they’re quite intriguing. Are they written from experience or is she merely ‘assuming a role’? As well as the standard radio friendly ‘luurve’ songs, there are also some with quite explicit themes, none more so than ‘Rope Burn’, an ode to the joy of bondage and hot wax! And what are we to make of her cover of Rod Stewart’s ‘Tonight’s The Night’, where Janet sings, ‘I love you girl... spread your wings and let me come inside.’ Lyrics to all songs are printed in full, and there’s quite a bit to munch on — I’ll leave you to try to decipher who the ‘J’ she’s referring to in the album’s closer ‘Special’ is. 
Artist: SNOOP DOGGY DOGG 
Album: We Just Wanna Party With You 
Record Company: Sony
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
From the Men in Black soundtrack, this loops Kool and the Gang’s ‘Get Down.On It’, with vocals by JD. It’s just a straight party jam, with Snoop clearly on auto-pilot. I did enjoy his lyric ‘Snoop Dogg Corleone’ though. Worthy if only for the MIB Master Mix (Will Smith) and Escobar 97 (Nas). 
Artist: MARIAH CAREY
Album: Butterfly
Record Company: Sony
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Whilst never denying her vocal strength, Mariah has always left me a little cold. She kinda always looked like a munchkin/chimpanzee. But it turns out (according to tabloids) that was the fault of her husband/manager. Having shed him, Mariah has also shed that dowdy MOR image, and emerged (like a Butterfly!) as a Hot Thang! which has me conflicted. I like the look but don’t really understand why someone who has sold that many records needs to behave like Puff Daddy’s ho/backing singer in the ‘Honey’ rap video. But isn’t the song great? Yes it is, which is why it’s disappointing to learn that it’s not really that indicative of the album. Most of it is high quality, big production, MOR, giving full vent to Mariah’s magnificent vocal range. Her duet with Dru Hill, covering Prince’s ‘The Beautiful Ones’ left me a little cold, but if you like ballads there are a few here to keep you happy. Just as I started to nod off, Jermaine Dupri kicks in with his 'Honey’ remix, featuring Da Brat and sampling the Jackson 5. It’s good, but we’ve already been spoilt by the opener, from Puff Daddy, who samples Treacherous 3 and loops World Famous Supreme Team. The album closes with yet another version, this one Deep House from David.' Morales — it’s great and should get a lot of club play. 
Artist: BILLY OCEAN 
Album: Love Is For Life 
Record Company: Liberation
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
With the current penchant for retro, it’s no surprise this chap should have his own compile. What surprised me was that it’s a double album. We all remember Billy’s hits from the 80s, but I didn't realise all those songs from the 70s were his too. Born in Trinidad, Leslie moved the UK when he was seven, and wisely changed his name when he launched his pop career. The big 70s hits, ‘Love Really Hits Without You’ and ‘Red Light Spells Danger’, launched him, but the inevitable slump came and it wasn’t until the early 80s that Billy could restart his career. ‘Carribean Queen’ (originally recorded as ‘European Queen’ — it became the b-side) was the one, which he followed with other hits like, ‘When the Going Gets Tough...’ and ‘Get Outta My Dreams...’, and some luurve ballads. The 80s pop is hysterical, very indicative of production values of the day, but although packed with hits (24 tracks!) I found this double set a little too much. Maybe a Vol. 1 and Vol. 2 would have been better? 
Artist: M PEOPLE 
Album: Just For You
Record Company: BMG
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
This band were huuge in NZ, and probably responsible for the big crossover to House. This is off their new album Fresco, and it would appear they’ve dropped the House beats. Yes, I expected them to be innovative, but if this is the future I’m undecided. Very heavy on the acoustic guitar this would indicate M People have forgone the late night clublife in favour of Sunday brunches. Yes, it’s very good (classy, sophisticated), but not what I expected and not what I really wanted. 
Artist: SHAGGY 
Album: Midnight Lover
Record Company: Virgin
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Mr Lover Lover is back with more of his distinctive ragga styles. With daylight saving here this is perfect for long summer afternoons. Shaggy has a marvellous voice, both deep and edgy yet also impish enough to get away with some of lecherous lyrics he sings. But he must be someone you can bring home to mum, cos he finishes the album with his version of Bob Marley’s ‘Thank You Lord’. There are various vocal collaborations on the album, most notable the radio friendly ‘Perfect Song’ with Maxi Priest. Sly Dunbar and Robbie Shakespeare also get in on the act, playing and producing ‘Way Back Home’, which has a rather nifty Curtis Mayfield sample. 
Artist: ETERNAL 
Album: Before The Rain
Record Company: EMI
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Eternal were an English R&B four piece, before ditching the white girl and going whole hog for the USA market. Just so you know how far they’ve come, they include their debut album Power Of A Woman as a bonus disc. Quite a bonus — one can only speculate on how much was spent on styling, cos the girls look very Stateside R&B indeed. Their first single ‘I Wanna Be The Only One’, a duet with Bebe Winans, is a good indicator of what Eternal are all about: extremely strong vocal power with a solid R&B backing. But they already won me over with their debut. This album delivers on the promise made back then, and with the exception of one white girl who’s name eludes me, few will be disappointed with this. Trivia note: Eric Clapton plays guitar on ‘Someday’. 
Artist: SWV 
Album: Release Some Tension
Record Label: BMG
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Riding the coat tails of En Vogue, SWV (Sisters With Voices) started out as just another girl group. But their perseverance has paid off, and they’ve emerged as survivors of the one hit wonder syndrome. There’s no denying the girls look good, sound good, and move good, but so do many others in their genre. SWV wisely choose to partner up with various others to come up with a good collection of jams. Puff Daddy, Foxy Brown, Li’l Kim, Snoop Dogg, Redman, Missy Elliot... and others. Which begs the question — are SWV just backing vocalists? Whatever the answer, this is a good Rap/R&B album and the collaborations work well.
Artist: SHE 
Album: 3’s A Charm
Record Label: Universal
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Interesting I should review this straight after SWV... SHE are another three piece girl group blessed with fine voices, looks, and so on. On the new TWIsM record label, it’s quite unexceptional, which is not to say it’s bad, it’s just that with the exception of ‘My Secret Is’, which features Shaq, there isn’t much here to distinguish SHE from the rest. Still, it’s only their first album so who knows where they’ll go. If you like the R&B radio singles, then this is worthwhile. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Money Talks Soundtrack
Record Label: BMG
Reviewed By: NICK D’ANGELO
Chris Tucker, supposedly the new Eddie Murphy, stars in the film and exec. produces this soundtrack. The album starts well with the Refugee All Stars’ rather excellent ‘Avenues’ (a reworking of ‘Electric Avenue’ by Eddie Grant), but doesn’t really get much better after that. Mostly slow R&B jams from well knowns such as SWV, Mary J Blige, Deborah Cox, and some Rap/R&B from the likes of Mase, Puff Daddy, and a mediocre combination of the two by Naughty By Nature. and Next. Interspersed amongst it all is the retro sound of Rick James, Lisa Stansfield, and Barry White (two tracks). Individually, some of the songs on this album make good radio tracks, but collected together they just don’t seem to spark.
Artist: PIXIES 
Album: Death To The Pixies
Record Label: 4AD
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
We may as well get one thing straight from the start. I think the Pixies are the most important band of the last decade, so any album that contains their best studio tracks and a 20 track live bonus disc is going to get a pretty darned good review. 
A long overdue career retrospective, Death to the Pixies may bring the band the posthumous recognition they so richly deserve. It’s hard to quibble with the track selection, although everyone will have a favourite song which didn’t make the cut. The 17 tracks here span their entire career, and are a fair representation of the respective merits of the albums from which they are taken. Their debut mini-album Come on Pilgrim (1987), and first' fulllength release Surfer Rosa (1988), each contribute three tracks to. the running order (although the version of ‘Gigantic’ - here is from the Gigantic EP, not from Surfer Rosa). Six tracks are lifted from their 1989 masterpiece Doolittle. Their last two albums, Bossanova (1990) and Trompe Le Monde (1991), had their moments, but the Pixies blueprint had already been mapped out on their first three studio efforts, and the law of diminishing returns was beginning to set in. Three tracks are culled from Bossanova and two from Trompe Le Monde. That’s it. An album of pure, unadulterated genius. For anyone too young to remember the Pixies in their heyday, cop a listen to this to hear where the young Kurt Cobain and Billy Corgan et al, were finding their inspiration. 
For a limited time (Christ, I’m beginning to sound like an ad for the record company), you’ll also get a live disc taken from a 1990 show in Utrecht, Holland. Naturally, some of the subtleties of their studio work is lost in translation to a live setting, but the disc contains other rich rewards. In the studio, the Pixies could take a single note on an overdriven'guitar, and amplify it till it contained all the power and majesty of a full orchestra. That’s not so easy to achieve live, but what has been captured is a concentrated dose of the Pixies bittersweet magic. Frontman Black Francis is caught in full flight, alternatively sounding as if he’s gargling razor blades, or auditioning for a place in a church choir. Kim Deal pounds out line after line of sledgehammer bass. And when Dave Lovering breaks into the dou-ble-time drumming on ‘Gigantic’, the goosebumps will rise faster than the trousers of a man in a strip joint. A big, big love indeed. 
Artist: PORTISHEAD 
Album: Portishead 
Record Label: GDI Beat
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
Not content with playing their radio from a room next door a la Dummy, this time round Portishead seem to have set up a station somewhere even further north of Lonely Street, beaming their sounds in from a planet of devastatingly blue and black climes. 
To give an idea how low this emotional trip can go, it’s best to start with the single that’s been squeezing everybody’s hearts, ‘All Mine’. While boasting some of the most classically romantic lyrics of recent time, delivered from a tongue that is surely sugar-frosted, come the chorus it’s revealed a bitter green streak that’s downright scary. Likewise with the equally gorgeous ‘Only You’, a love song that starts with the words, ‘We suffer every day/What is it for?’ A nifty Inspector Clouseau sample adds an extra dose of the noirs to this number, sprung surprisingly amidst some good old wibbly-wobbly scratch-work, and a lounge-slinky keyboard line. 
Listening to ‘Seven Months’, the real question of ‘the trial’ can’t be one of guilt (which is held in the heart of the accuser), but of who broke the chanteuse’s heart so irreparably. A little support from her cohorts in the form of a sample known at my place as ‘Portishead’s dog’ has been unleashed — let the heartbreaker shake in their shoes. 
Artist: TEENAGE FANCLUB 
Album: Songs From Northern Britain
Record Label: Creation
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY 
Norman Blake has a theory that every alternate Teenage Fanclub album gets panned by the critics. Perusing their career he may have a point, what with the debut A Catholic Education being followed by the instrumental mayhem of The King, which was quickly forgotten after the sublime Bandwagonesque. From there, Thirteen was unjustly maligned, leaving 1995’s Grand Prix to restore universal adulation, bringing us to the unassumingly titled Songs From Northern Britain. 
It has received fewer accolades than its predecessor, but now its dawning on most people of taste and discernment that it’s a sleeping classic. The band’s detractors and doubters can’t seem to accept the fact that an album full of great songs is a great album. The Fanclub’s love of songs and melodies mean they don’t have to break moulds and be stunningly fashionable to make memorable and moving music. 
That said, they have brushed up on a couple of things, particularly their harmonies and they’re employed on most of the songs on Northern Britain, giving the album a more unified,, uniform feel that clouds the distinction between the Blake/Love/McGinley songwriting styles. But that’s a plus, as the band opens with a: twin blast of Byrd mania in ‘Start Again’ and ‘Ain’t That Enough’, and guitars catch fire on the ecstatic ‘Take the Long Way Round’ and ‘Winter’. Gerard Love slips on his obligatory Neil Young checked shirt for the ambling ‘Mt. Everest’, and it’s Love again who provides the conclusion with the glorious ‘Speed Of Light’.
The undeniable excellence of Northern Britain needs patience to unfold. Norman Blake’s theory doesn’t wash — Teenage Fanclub have made two classics in a row. 
Artist: STEREOLAB 
Album: Dots And Loops
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Stereolab’s second major label release sees them move even further from their original moog-driven psychedelia, and dive deeper into dance orientated electronica. Whereas Emperor Tomato Ketchup was a funkster in Parisian clothing, Dots and Loops gives props to jungle and techno beats. Neither of which impress a non-designer-fizz-swilling-uni-ped like me — long lost is the little inclination I once possessed to join the dancing masses. What I will say is that I still appreciate cool, and pretentious or not, Stereolab have it in spades. Beatniks, bongos, cafe life and foreign language chanteuses still rule in my addled little Kesey defined world, and the continental feel of Dots And Loops still walks the walk.
Artist: JOHN LYDON 
Album: Psycho’s Path 
Record Label: Liberation
Artist: EDWYN COLLINS
Album: I’m Not Following You
Record Label: Setanta
Artist: LOVE SPIT LOVE 
Album: Trysome Eatone
Record Label: Maverick
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY 
Some late 70s heroes who have now arguably devolved into disposable antiques of the 90s has to begin with the man who invented the modern world of rock ‘n’ roll, John ‘Rotten’ Lydon. Believe it or not, this is Lydon’s first ever solo album. His past involvements have always been with bands in the shape of the Sex Pistols, before and after middle-age spread, Public Image, and more recently, the contemporary techno pulse of Leftfield. 
‘A chip on the shoulder feels like lead,’ he confides on ‘Another Way’ — a sign of weariness from rock’s angriest middle-aged man? No question that his mantras and nasal keening don’t have the cutting edge or bile away from the pile-driving guitars of Jones or the avantgardery of PIL. ‘Another Way’ and ‘Take Me’ may worm their way into your conscious moments but your soul is safe. It’s no coincidence that the best things here belong to Leftfield and Moby re-mixes who provide the appropriate musical counterpoint to Lydon’s rantings. Another Sex Pistols revival needed? 
Like Lydon, Edwyn Collins’ career took a little recent up-swing with a single moment of near inspiration. In this case it was ‘A Girl Like You’, a finger-snapping 50’s jukebox pastiche perfectly tailored for the 905.. Collins has always been a pop junkie, a lover of its paraphernalia, trappings and styles. The unsatisfying I'm Not Following You is like a trip through the ephemera of the pop culture, with Collins as the tourist guide stopping off at amusing homage’s to soul, l Keep on Burning’, country, ‘Country Rock’ and the 80s of ‘Adidas World’. Clever, witty and superficially engaging, but he seldom makes an emotional connection. I'm Not Following You ironically reflects the disposable nature of Collins’ pop aesthetics. 
A voice from the past, and one that should have stayed there, is Love Spit Love’s Richard Butler, very late of the Psychedelic Furs. Best remembered for their postpunk/new wave anthem, ‘Love My Way’, those furry animals were a mode of transport for Butler’s raspy, smoky vocals that dominated most of their songs. Now he peers out from his fringe like nothing’s changed in the last 20 years, back with a band of competent rock ‘n’ roll functionaries who could be musical spitting images of his old band. Expectorate nothing — and you won’t be disappointed. 
Artist: MARVIN GAYE 
Album: Vulnerable
Record Label: Motown
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
These recordings are shocking in their extreme purity. Although the songs are standards, Gaye seems to have achieved an intensity of performance unequalled in his career, even when singing his own songs. As a truly great singer he has made these songs his own, giving them an autobiographical edge. 
This project that Gaye’ gave the working title ‘the Ballads’ was recorded in January 1967; in New York, and shelved as the singer did not think his vocals achieved the excellence of the Bobby Scott orchestrations. ‘The Ballads’ haunted Gaye and he revisited them in the 70s, completing the seven songs in .1979 when,' in Gaye’s words, “The pain in my heart corresponded with the pain in the lyrics.” 
Vulnerable adds another bizarre chapter to the Marvin Gaye story, showing that Gaye’s youthful infatuation with the likes of Nat King Cole and Frank Sinatra, did bare fruit. It is amazing that the recordings that the artist considered to be his finest (according to David Ritz, who suggested the title Vulnerable to Gaye in 1982) have only achieved release to the public 13 years after his death, and 30 years after the first recording session. The man continues to give pleasure and confound from beyond the grave. 
Artist: EYE TV 
Album: Birdy-0 
Record Label: Antenna
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
Three albums has been a long time in the life of Eye TV, and it’s Birdy-0 that displays the sense of history that’s long been fuelling the band’s live shows. Birdy-0 boasts the muscle of Eye TV, albeit in an infinitely more toned manner, and the eerie beauty of Special Downtime, often. springing one quality upon the other without wasting any preliminary steps on the way. Take the sudden late-nighting Sean Sturm’s keyboards lend to the otherwise aggressive ‘Ditch Witch’, for example, or the all-out epic-ry that transforms ‘Freeze Frame & Fade-out’ from the spooky reverb number it begins as. It’s as if the first two albums have been recorded while being melted down together — the chunky bits floating to the top of a slick and shiny brew every time momentum generates enough buoyancy. If Birdy-0 didn’t kick off so gosh-darned sunny, with the ‘Snakes & Ladders’ single, I’d suggest you locked yourself in somewhere real dark, with only room enough for one or two for your first listen to it, thus putting no obstacles between you and abduction by these sneaky textures. 
Artist: HEADRILLAZ 
Album: Coldharbour Rocks
Record Label: V2
Artist: THE CRYSTAL METHOD
Album: Vegas
Record Label: Outpost
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
The much-lauded electronic explosion of English dance acts in America; lead by Prodigy, Chemical Brothers, Orbital etc., has apparently opened doors for Stateside beatmakers as well. Not only are these once-underground acts getting more media exposure than they ever could have dreamed of, major labels are now scooping them up, and the marketing and publicity departments of said labels are shifting into top gear. 
This would be fine if the music justified the push. With Headrillaz and the Crystal Method, it most certainly doesn’t. Both acts deal in weak, ineffectual imitations of the big-beat Chemical Brothers style. Nothing on either album stands out, with both bands seemingly entirely devoid of hooks. The Crystal Method album begins with the much weaker original mix of ‘Trip Like I Do’, their recent collaboration with noise act Filter, and is followed by song after song of mediocre electronica. The Headrillaz release does have the odd cute sample, but who can take seriously an act that lists bpm’s for each track on a CD release? 
Artist: THE DANDY WARHOLS
Album: Come Down
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
The search for a big Stateside allstar band to fill the vacuum in American lives that is currently being filled by techno-punk limeys like Prodigy, probably doesn’t start with the Dandy Warhols. But Oregon’s finest, armed with one of the better puns, have nerve, wit, imagination, and a good record collection, if the variety of Come Down is anything to go by. 
‘Heroin is so Passe,’ they sing on the crest of surging Beach Boys harmonies on ‘Not if You Were the Last Junkie on Earth’, a conclusion they reach after indulging in the Velvet’s intensity of ‘Be-In’ and ‘The Creep Out’. But at the album's core are three chiming, addictive downers in ‘Good Morning’, ‘Whipping Tree’, and ‘Green’ — hypnotic enough to steal the show from the punky tribute ‘Cool As Kim Deal’ and the thrusting ‘Hard on for Jesus’. 
Still too college to be mainstream, and often too wrapped up in a sense of their own ingenuity at being able to absorb and patiche, Come Down has, nevertheless, enough evidence to suggest that the .Warhols could be important, unaffected songwriters in their own right. And, at the moment, the apple, pie needsail it can get.
Artist: DAVID KILGOUR & THE HEAVY EIGHTS 
Album: David Kilgour & The Heavy Eights
Record Label: Flying Nun
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
NZ rock legend David Kilgour is back for album number three, post Clean/Great Unwashed. Possessing the most savvy guitar sound to be found this side of the black stump, Kilgour has been at the foreground of Flying Nun’s 60s inspired jangle rock vanguard for longer than even he may care to remember. With this self titled album the formulae continues, augmented by trumpet, percussion, and American Barbara Manning on backing vocals. There’s some surprises within, the piano-driven soundtrack out-takes^of -.‘Tumbalin’.for instance, but it’s the diamond-seam guitar tracks that • rule the roost. There’s the fuzzed out jam of ‘Digging for Gold’, the tremelo sway of ‘Maybe’, and ‘Chop Me in Half’ with its neighbourhood watch fallacy vocals, that plummets into biting guitar strainings from sweet folk jangle. 
Not an earth shaker, there are a lot of solid, steady tunes, David Kilgour is content to continue digging his own twisted fault line. 
Artist: VARIOUS ARTISTS 
Album: The Duran Duran Tribute Album
Record Label: Mojo
Reviewed By: FRANKO GRACIAS
Like a lot of 13 year olds in the 80s, I couldn’t help but like Duran Duran, especially : ‘Wild -Boys’ and its respective video. My girlfriend at the time was madly in love with Simon Le Bon. This wasn’t a problem — she was 14, he was Simon Le Bon, and that was that. Shock-horror in 1985, the bastard comes to New Zealand to race in the Whitbread, and instead of hanging out and snogging me in the school hols, she went to Auckland to stalk Le  Bastardos, and actually met him! My only consolation was his boat sunk into Davy Jones' locker. 
Anyway, the album, the music. The whole sordid affair seems to have been initiated by Goldfinger, who open the album with their ska/punk/metal piss-take of ‘Rio’. At the end of the track they sing, ‘His name is Dio, Ronnie James Dio,’ complete with horrible guitar solo. The majority of the tracks sound like they were played by the same band (ie. Goldfinger)’ and veer around the ska/punk territory. That said, there’s a few worth a listen. Home Grown do a pretty good version of .‘Planet Earth’, with the vocals strangely reminding me of Devo. Reel Big Fish deliver a cool big band version of : ‘Hungry like the Wolf’, but I could’ve done without the intro/outro attempt at being funny. ‘Girls on Film’ is covered twice, Bjorn Again doing a pretty straight rendition, and the Wesley Willis Fiasco doing yet another pisstake version. 
I’m unsure if this album will appeal to Duran Duran fans interested in hearing 90’s punk rockers cover Duran Duran songs, or fans of the bands on the album covering songs they’ve possibly never heard before, but someone should get a laugh out of it... I did. 
Artist: 311 
Album: Transistor
Record Label: Polygram
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM 
Good ole boys from the Midwest, 311 have created their own hybrid of funk, ska, hip hop, and big riffs that is as clear and smooth as the Nebraska sky. Transistor, the band’s forth album, consists of 21 tracks of pure, good-vibe rock, with a spiritual consciousness that parallels the Chilli’s circa BloodSugarSexMagik. And although vocalist Nick Hexum isn’t Anthony Kiedis Mkll, the lyrical imagery and flow is similar. Musically, 311 straddle the line between black and white music, and in this instance the gap is getting tenuous. The reggae/dub influence is strong (‘lnner Light Spectrum’, ‘Use of Time'), while the harder guitar sounds are never far away (‘Galaxy’, ‘Jupiter’). The title track is perhaps the most seamless mesh of disparate sounds, with a swinging rock/reggae rhythm, Hexum’s busy toasting, and an incendiary riff. Although they have to face down the ‘white pretenders’ tag, 311 are more . about substance than surface. The sound of summer 1997? 
Artist: SOUTHERN CULTURE ON THE SKIDS 
Album: Plastic Seat Sweat
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
This southern trio sound like the bastard offspring of the B-52s and 77 Top — never taking themselves too seriously, yet at the same time creating some seriously ass shaking rock'n’roll.
On Plastic Seat Sweat, Southern Culture do the biz hard, and often wonderfully, despite the glib one-line sociology of their moniker. So what do you get for your money? ‘Shotguns’ - a rockabilly update on aforesaid wedding - where the woman, not papa, comes looking for the loser that sowed the seed. Then there’s the sleazy striptease theme of ‘Theme From The Cheaters’, and finally, my personal fave, ‘Strangest Ways’, which ponders the results of dialling that number someone’s scratched into the bathroom wall. The other nine tracks are pretty cool too. True, nothing to make the Cramps blush, but Southern Culture On The Skids are exemplary cartoon trash With a heart. 
Artist: STEREOPHONICS 
Album: Word Gets Around
Record Label: V2
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
It takes three Welshmen from Cwmaman to think of a name that should have been collared over 30 years ago, when 12 inch LPs were evolving from mono into ‘high-. fidelity stereophonic’. Names aside, it would be easy to pigeonhole these boyos as the poor man’s Manic Street Preachers, after all, they’re a trio, they’re Welsh, and they share the same tastes for literate, unadorned rock ‘n’ roll ascetics. 
But the Stereophonies have been around for 10 years, a period long enough to pre-date the Manics, and to sculpt their own lean, guitar strident blueprint. Lyrically, caught between the colloquial poetry of Dylan Thomas, and the edge of their own first or second hand experiences, the band recount a number of vivid, tragic, and mundane tales. From the allusion of rape on ‘A Thousand Trees’, to the recollection of death on ‘Local Boy in the Photograph’, and random thoughts while stuck in a ‘Traffic’ jam, these guys make it clear that they’re impressively not in it for the laughs. And anyone who can craft a believable tune around a title like ‘More Life in a Tramp’s Vest’, has to have a resourceful sense of perspiration, at least. So something in the valleys is rockin’, and it’s definitely not in mono. Better check it out. 
Artist: GREEN DAY 
Album: Nimrod 
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
It was only three years ago that the angsty bubblegum of Dookie introduced a new kind of teen-o-centric punk rock to suburban kids the world over (that Sex Pistols’ song could’ve been rewritten as ‘Anarchy in Brown’s Bay I Came around with Green Day...’, etc). Now the perpetually mugging-for-the-camera trio have found themselves grown up, with adult concerns, and painted into a corner. 
On Nimrod, there are some concessions to maturity — horns and strings — while making desperate attempts to retain that slightly-dis-couraged, cartoonish exuberance, that had already become seriously depleted on last year’s Insomniac. For the most part, the Stray Cat strut bassline of ‘Hitchin’ a Ride’, or the Spector-ish harmonies of ‘Reject’, sum up the slightly anachronistic feel of things. Still, there’s some accomplished rock tunes, with ‘Good Riddance’ and ‘Jinx’ probably already classics in some parallel dimension. 
But the effervescence has all but lost its sparkle, and as Billy Joe Armstrong sings on ‘The Grouch’, ‘I’m just another shitty old man.’
Artist: Fl LA BRAZILLIA
Album: Luck Be A Weirdo Tonight
Record Label: Pork
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
Ough. Suits you sir. Ough. Get the Martinis out, polish up the Swingers bootleg, cos Fila Brazillia are gonna sort ya for a soundtrack of sophisticated boozing and all round mind alteration.
Their last four albums have been sound as a pound of course, and let’s be honest, Mess is one of the all time classics from the realm of Pork’s mellow-beat mood transmogrifiers. But Luck Be A Weirdo Tonight is double-top shagadelic territory — this is an album that should suck in the punters that aren’t with the programme yet. ‘Billy Goat Groupies’ and ‘Do the HaleBop’ prove that naming these tracks is as ridiculous as describing them. But let it be known that these watercolour soundscapes make as much sense on a hungover Sunday afternoon, as they do when the sun has set and your gearing up for bizzo. It’s the new jazz didn’t ya know. And yes, they’ll jazz in your mouth, jazz all over your kit, and jazz upside your mind if you give them half a chance. ' 
Artist: SLY AND ROBBIE 
Album: Friends
Record Label: Eastwest
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
Not much to say really. The world’s best rhythm section meet with a few vocalists from the mainstream pop world for an album of basically reggae standards. 
I can’t help feeling, in musical terms, that almost always the original is better, and little that I hear on this album changes that view. The wonderful ‘Night Nurse’ is sung in typically insipid style by Muck Hucknall. Of course it’s hard to mess up a song like that when you have Sly and Robbie behind you — perhaps it’s just knowing the real thing? There’s more than just the reggae greats; the theme from Mission Impossible and ‘Satisfaction’, both a rhythm man’s dream, get the treatment to full and memorable effect. 
Friends is great for fans, but new recruits should go to the archives. 
Artist: OCEAN COLOUR SCENE 
Album: Marchin’ Already 
Record Label: MCA
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Call it self belief, persistence, or just a fear of returning to day jobs, but Ocean Colour Scene are thriving against the odds. Dumped by their record company after their debut album turkeyed, they hacked out a few demos to become Mosley Shoals, an album vilified for its flagrant 60s parentage. 
So they’ve soldiered on, reinforced by the fact that Shoals sold over a million copies in Britain. Now the acid test of a second album sees them slightly less besotted by their dad’s music, and less under the influence of friend, guru, and past employer, Paul Weller. They stretch their wings to take in the reggae of ‘Half a Dream Away’, while vocalist Simon Fowler fronts up with a spanking duet with PP Arnold on the soulful ‘lt’s a Beautiful Thing’. Rock ‘n’ roll is taken care of in ‘Hundred Mile High City’, where Cradock’s guitar cuts loose, and in the staunch and sturdy Faces influenced ‘Debris Road’. The album does sag in the middle, the result of too many orthodox and predictable ballads, but overall the Ocean Colour Scene beat a steady trend —- dependable and maybe inexorable. Not a run but certainly born to march.
Artist: Dance Hall Crashers 
Album: Honey, I’m Homely! 
Record Label: MCA
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN 
The Berkeley, California five piece Dance Hall Crashers were fusing bursts of brass and fast reggae riffs long before the current ska/punk revival took shape. And perhaps as a consequence of their history (formed 1989), they do the ska/punk thing better than most. 
Honey I’m Homely is the band’s fourth album, and sees them bring back the brassy sounds which were ditched for their last record, Lockkjaw. It’s a sensible decision to reinstate the brass — without it, the Dance Hall Crashers’ sound lacks pep. The twin vocal attack of singers Elyse and Karina works nicely together, while the tight rhythm section’s sound is fleshed out cleverly with the clean brass sound. It’s hardly a breakthrough record, but is a good example of how ska/punk doesn’t have to sound as unimaginative as the dross No Doubt pump out. 
Artist: ELEVATOR THROUGH HELL 
Album: Eerieconsiliation 
Record Label: Sub Pop
Artist: SUPERCHUNK
Album: Indoor Living
Record Label: Merge
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Looking like 60s punks back from the dead, skins blue under a psychedelic moon, Elevator Through Hell match the image to their sound. Playing on every fuzzed out, 60s proto-punk/motor city heavy metal-schism, this trio utilise analog technology to spew up 16 tracks that alternate from spooky early Barret psych to Blue Cheer grunge, with lead vox man Rick White sounding like a Lou Barlow who’s taken too many acid trips in too short a space of time. Occasionally things fall into the bad trip soundtrack rut, but for the most part this is one magic carpet ride. 
Occupying totally different ground, indie stalwarts SuperChunk present their sixth album proper. Whereas Elevator Through Hell possess a certain naive charm, Superchunk are battle hardened veterans, determined to breach the next front. Compared to their last album, Here's Where the Strings Come In, Indoor Living toughens up the softer moments, and gives up a couple more anthems to feed bedroom rebellions around the world — of which the opening ‘Unbelievable Things’ is a sterling example. While not a patch on 1991 sNo Pocky for Kitty, Indoor Living is a welcome addition to a fine legacy. 
Artist: LORI CARSON 
Album: Everything I Touch Runs Wild
Record Label: Restless
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
When is a Golden Palominos record not a Golden Palominos record? When it’s Lori Carson’s Everything I Touch Runs Wild. This album from the Golden Palominos’ vocalist, features telling contributions from many of her bandmates — including Palominos’ head honcho Anton Fier. But make no mistake, while the album’s personnel makes the Palominos an obvious reference point, Carson has substituted the Palominos polished precision for something far more organic.
Recorded in her New York City apartment, Everything I Touch Runs Wild is as intimate as it’s possible to be, without Carson physically sticking her tongue in your ear. Sung over spare acoustic arrangements, Carson’s lyrics sound like whispered confessions. Autobiographical or not, their effect is captivating and hauntingly beautiful, if hot a little claustrophobic. This is particularly so during the album’s middle stages, when the mood gets noticeably morose. The tension is broken by the penultimate track — a relatively breezy version of Todd Rundgren’s ‘I Saw the Light’, which helps lighten the mood somewhat. A compelling listen then, Everything I Touch Runs Wild is not so much wild, as potently serene.
Artist: FLUKE 
Album: Risotto
Record Label: Virgin
Artist: SUPERCHARGER
Album: Wall to Wall Moustache
Record Label: China
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Fluke. Remember the name. You might know them from ‘Atom Bomb’, their chargin’ Wipeout 2097 pacer. Or you’re more likely to pick up on them with this year’s ‘Summer of Cricket’ anthem, ‘Absurd’ (remember what happened to ‘Firestarter’). Whatever, their name is about to be dropped all over the place. 
While the rest of the world seems to be peeping in to see who’s in the house, Fluke are taking an electrodance look at things, where the smoother the ride means the better the journey. Think Leftfield and you’re on the right track. More groove, less sweat. And when Jon Fuglar’s vocals drift in like a sinister Dieter Meier (Yello), you’re off down a different beaten track to darkness. 
As for Supercharger, well, cool album title. The wave of big-beat Chemical Brother/Prodigy variants is flowing out the UK in torrents at the moment. The ‘New Grunge’ they should be calling it. Supercharger are head and shoulders above most of the rabid record company signups. Comparable to the mad bonkers, Bentley Rhythm Ace, Supercharger run the gamut of breakbeat sample.styles, not so much carving niches with an individualistic stamp, more following closely and magnifying the highs that have proved party starters. Not fresh, but good, is what I’m trying to Say I think. And, er well, points off for a track called ‘We Rock’. 
Artist: THE SUNDAYS 
Album: The Static and the Silence 
Record Label: Parlaphone
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON 
I used to hate this band. They represented to me the epitome of late 80s, English wuss-pop — bland, forgettable songs about nothing.
Well they haven’t changed much, but perhaps I have cos I found myself quite enjoying their bland forgettable songs. My attention span must have improved also, as I was finding undercurrent genres swimming below the surface of their softly melodic songs. ‘Homeward’ has the slightest flavour of country & western; a lilting, lovely swoop of melody, disguised within the cold and steely corners of the Sundays less than passionate songs. ‘Folksong’ is a revisitation of the 70s ‘cocaine cowboy’ genre. It’s almost warm, almost comfortable, you almost want to hear it again. 
Artist: CORDS 
Album: Hear! See! Feel! Taste! 
Record Label: Shock
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
What do you do with an album by a band you’ve never heard of, that boasts a singer who could be Kim Gordon (but isn’t) and the kind of balls usually rubbed in your face by the likes of Seven Year bitch? Tell as many people as you can to buy said album right now.
Hear! See! Feel! Taste! is as cool as a well-loved car you ain’t afraid to take off-road — highly polished, but as dirty as a mud wrestling match. It’s everything from a wailing shebeast blinded by beauty on ‘Singin’ Bird’, to a snippet of the B-movie loonies on an untitled track six. It’s a bitchin' behemoth you should be glad to let come crashing through your walls — but look out for its impending arrival so you can steer it around the power lines running that all-important juice to your sound system. 
Artist: GUITAR WOLF 
Album: Planet of The Wolves
Record Label: Matador
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Japanese garage monsters Guitar Wolf — a scorching rock ‘n’ roll noise explosion with the barely-con-trolled intensity of the MCS (at their best), and the delinquent ferocity of good boys gone bad — are back with another white-hot blast of sonic fury, following up their Less Than TV classics Run Wolf Run and Missile Me, with their big(gish) label, international debut. 
Except this album’s recorded in a (ahem) studio, with (gasp) engineers, but fear not — it hasn’t diluted the hydrochloric essence of Guitar Wolf’s musical savagery much at all. Neither have the trio made any drastic readjustments to their style — the howls, shrieks and amp-torturing of their lo-lo-fi stuff remains in the molotov-accelerant mixture on Planet of the Wolves.
Here they fire out their latest trash masterpieces, and swoop onto songs by Teengenerate, Oblivions, and the Stones’ (‘Satisfaction’), mauling them into Guitar Wolf shape. And even with English lyrics helpfully provided, you still don't stand a chance of making head or tail of what this is all about — just let this rock ‘n’ roll attack rip into your soul. 
Artist: SOUL II SOUL 
Album: Time For Change
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Well Jazzy B’s changed alright. He’s not completely crap anymore. And it’s probably not the thing to bring up Club Classics these days, but man, they were the kings back then — when ‘a happy face, a thumpin’ bass for a lovin race’ meant something. They were moment defining and now they’re not. Now you kind of wish they’d change their name. 
Time for Change is a good album on its own merits — a mellow jazzy collection that stands up after repeated listens — but it’s not littered with hits and there’s too few tunes that distinguish it from the deluge of Ronny Jordan-esque cafe residents. Okay, on the up side, it’s a damn sight better than their last tragic piece of toe curling awfulness. 
Artist: THE LETTER 5 
Album: Unnatural Selection
Record Label: Independent
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Richard James’ Letter 5 have been around. Their EP You Are Here was released by Flying Nun in 1991. Since then, the name Letter 5 and James himself have remained, while the live and recorded duties have been filled on a who’s available, revolving door basis. 
Nevertheless, over the ensuing years the Letter 5 have continued to release indigenous indie pop of a high compositional standard, complete with Mr James’ trademark wry, smirkingly cynical, lyrical swipes. With this cassette you too can own the entire Letter 5 discography in one tidy package, complete with moray eel in glorious 2D! Seek it out now.
Artist: THE GRYPHONS 
Album: Alice In Gryphon Land
Record Label: Independent
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
Mini-album from Christchurch three piece. Competent and calculated. The concentration is far too great on sonic dynamics and concerted display of skill, no real feeling comes through the disc. Passionless and predictable. 
The songs are carefully divided up into rock, pop, and slower, melodic tunes. The former sound flat and come through the wash with an uninspired feeling; the guitar breaks arriving on cue and adding very little to the song expect an extra 45 seconds that need not be there (see ‘lnto Light’ for the example). The slower numbers rumble with amateur stage anger, and the band comes away sounding like a poor rip off of Live.