Artist: PRODIGY 
Album: The Fat Of The Land 
Record Label: XL Recordings
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
It may have taken a little longer than elsewhere for the fever to hit New Zealand, but after an incendiary performance at the Big Day Out transformed the Prodigy from a well-kept secret into a genre-crossing phenomenon, ‘Breathe’ and ‘Firestarter’ took up residence in the upper reaches of the charts; and you couldn’t turn around without being confronted by Keith Flint’s bizarre gargoyle face wherever you looked. Consequently, the air of expectation surrounding this album has been huge — and while it’s unlikely that many of those eagerly awaiting its arrival will be anything less than thrilled by it, it may not be exactly what they expect. As with the singles that preceded it, much of The Fat Of The Land is accessible, high-adrenalin, energy-intense dance music, informed by rock sensibilities, and — whenever Keith Flint opens his mouth — propelled by a snarling, punk attitude. But it is easy to be misled by perceiving the Prodigy as a band, rather than the vision and creation of Liam Howlett. Flint only appears on four tracks, Maxim on two, and the vibe is quite different on the instrumentals, and when other vocalists are utilised. Kula Shaker’s Crispian Mills floats ethereally through ‘Narayan’, an Eastern mystical ambience that clocks in at over nine minutes long; and when Kool Keith (aka Dr Octagon) cuts loose with ‘Diesel Power’, rapping over sparse hip hop beats and a one-note keyboard loop, it brings to mind the feel of Bomb The Bass. Still. There’s the booming sub-bass and frantic rhythms on the Ultramagnetic MC’s-sampling (and rather distaste-fully-titled) ‘Smack My Bitch Up’; overexcited Flint vocal madness on the rock-hard ‘Serial Thrilla’, and (incredible as it seems), the cover of L7’s ‘Fuel My Fire’; and some quite innovative sound creations and manipulations throughout. 
It probably won’t change the face of music forever, but The Fat Of The Land may prove to define the 1997 Zeitgeist. Hear it before it saturates clubs, bars and shopping malls near you. 
Artist: RADIOHEAD 
Album: OK Computer 
Record Label: Parlophone
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
By now a lot of the world know what it’s like to have a Radiohead. They probably feel slightly out of tune with the rest of the world (or vice versa, as ‘Karma Police’ would have it). With OK Computer, Thom Yorke physically transcends the masses to tell us why (with ‘Subterranean Homesick Alien’ giving us a fantasy view of how he dreams of managing this). It’s an album to revel, rather than wallow, in. Over their debut, beyond its brilliantly reactionary successor, now Radiohead are saying things exactly as they want to, seemingly without bothering to make sure every second song comes off like next month’s chart contender. Indeed, the strange choice for a first single (excluding the already released Warchild charity number included, ‘Lucky’), ‘Paranoid Android’, is a near epic considering the six-minute, 22-second length, and bipolar mood swings its eventually exploding high-rise structure so neatly encases. There’s even a novelty number thrown in to tell you these guys know irony when it taps on their computerised voice generator, with a melancholy piano line in the background ensuring ‘Fitter Happier’ comes off like more than pure gaggery. Nevertheless, I’ll mark that track as the lowest point of an album whose peaks are otherwise sustained throughout, rather than coming off like a series of trophies in a spotlessly polished showcase. Radiohead have thrown a fully dark shiner with this one. 
Artist: KRS-ONE 
Album: I Got Next 
Record Label: Jive
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
The metaphysician of hip hop returns with his eighth album of sociological commentary, still on the tireless mission to raise hip hop consciousness that he began with BDP back in the 80s. KRS-One has remained a potent and political force on the cutting edge of rap, while trends and styles have come and gone, with a staunch commitment to the form and to the black community overall; and his albums are always thoroughly solid and crucial, with KRS’s innovative lyrical dexterity delivering the charged political message of knowledge and power. I Got Next straddles old and new school styles, and contains some massive and diverse blasts. ‘Step Into A World (Rapture’s Delight)’, built around the old Blondie hit ‘Rapture’, should prove to be a rap classic of enduring appeal; ‘Just To Prove a Point’ has hardcore supergroup Handsome backing KRS on a rock-solid track; and the smooth lyrical flow of ‘A Friend’, floats over the loop of Theolonius Monk’s ‘Round Midnight’ in the chill zone. Redman guests twice, (notably when NY radio DJ Angie Martinez also steps up to the mic, and the three complementary voices recall those old school jams), while elsewhere guest producer Muggs leaves his minimalist imprint, and remix king Puffy Combs does the business on a bonus track. KRS-One not only has the mic skills, but the insight and vision to make this album work. Chances are folks’ll still be listening to this by the time his next record comes out. 
Artist: ROCKERS HI-FI 
Album: DJ-Kicks/The Black Album
Record Label: K 7 
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
From the series which brought you releases from Carl Craig, Kruder + Dorfmeister, and Nicollete, comes this album of sorts by Birmingham’s Rockers Hi-Fi. An album of sorts, because in some ways it's just a mix record taken to a higher level; almost all of the music is actually other people’s, mixed together by the Rockers record spinner, DJ Dick. But what makes this one different from (and superior to) most mix records is the input from fellow rockers, Bigga Bush and Farda P. Bush goes to work in the ‘echo chamber’, adding reverb here, a bit of echo there, a little flange here, while Farda takes on MC duties, toasting over the top of it all. It means that even the more recognisable tracks (Jeff Danna’s ‘Theme From Kung Fu’, Prince Far I’s ‘Long Life’) take on lives of their own. And like previous Rockers albums, this is very much a musical journey, as the trio visit a series of different styles and sounds along the way. No one track stands out as a highlight, but none let the album down either. Beautiful and damn near unmissable. 
Artist: CHEAP TRICK 
Album: Cheap Trick 
Record Label: Red Ant / Flying In
Reviewed By: MURRAY CAMMICK
They can open for Smashing Pumpkins, they can open for TL Top — 20 years later, the very same fab four are back with their finest album ever. There’s maximum melody in this mix of Beatlesque pop (‘Carnival Game’), radio pop (‘Say Goodbye’) and uptempo rock (‘Wrong All Along’, ‘Yeah Yeah’, ‘Baby No More’). 
Robin Zander’s voice is still in top form, evoking the beauty of John Lennon’s voice at times, while retaining the weirdness of Zander’s own vocal persona on a uniquely Cheap Trick track like ‘Eight Miles Low’. 
Steve Albini produces two noisy numbers ‘Baby Talk’ and ‘Brontosaurus’ (Roy Wood). While the band were lost in action for a decade, fans like Albini or Billy Corgan of Smashing Pumpkins have grown up, achieved fame and have now given some impetus to Cheap Trick regaining the exposure they deserve. 
It’s a weird recipe — mid-west boogie plus lashings of Liverpool — but once again, I like it. 
Artist: THE BYRDS 
Album: The Notorious Byrd Brothers 
Album: Sweetheart of the Rodeo 
Album: Dr. Byrds & Mr. Hyde
Album: Ballad of Easy Rider 
Record Label: Columbia/Legacy
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
The second quartet of Byrd’s reissues, and again they come completely re-mastered with a welter of bonus tracks wrapped in David Fricke’s fanzine liner notes, and Johnny Rogan’s song histories. Essential value and this chapter of the Byrds’ chronicles begins with what is rightly regarded as their last burst of brilliance, The Notorious Byrd Brothers. Together with Fifth Dimension and their finest work, Younger Than Yesterday, Notorious is quintessential Byrds, their last great atmospheric flight. 
From their hippie anthem of nonconformity, ‘Wasn’t Born To Follow’, to the similar sentiments expressed on ‘Change Is Now’ and ‘Draft Morning’, it is just a beautifully timeless album that, like Love’s Forever Changes, captures the confusion and ambivalence of the peace generation confronted by turbulence. Some achievement, huh?
Anyway, exit David Crosby and enter Gram Parsons for Sweetheart, the album that broke the ground for the country/rock hybrid. This album’s influence is far greater than its worth. Parson’s genius is only fledgling at this stage, although ‘Hickory Wind’ was an. obvious signpost as' to his potential. McGuinn’s country involvement was genuine but it wasn’t really his genre. Pedal steels couldn’t really touch 12 strings, and the Byrds were left with a muddled schizophrenia on Dr. Byrds, an unsatisfying blend of country and rock. And finally Easy Rider, with McGuinn’s moving ballad and the likes of ‘Jack Tarr’ indicating a partial return to his folk roots, amongst the country and Dylan fare that made up this shapeless if pleasant hippie sojourn. So stay cool man, and buy the lot, not just for their time capsule value, but also for the fact that their best rock ‘n’ roll will last for ever. 
Artist: EXPONENTS 
Album: Better Never Than Late 
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
The Exponents release another album and the musical elite groans in unison. But who cares about them? The Exponents certainly don’t. The legions of Exponents fans will welcome a new bunch of songs from Jordan and co. with open arms (and wallets), and these are the people that matter. So what will they get for their money? A few surprises maybe.
There aren’t as many unfeasibly catchy choruses on this latest Exponents release — something which may disappoint the beer-swilling faithful. The flip-side is a more interesting Exponents sound than we’ve heard for years. The simple pop songs are still there, and Luck continues to show his abilities as a songwriter, but what makes this album a little more interesting is the production. The boys teamed up with Eddie Rayner ,who not only brought a whole swag of strings to their sound, but also gave the album a more intricate sound than you’d ever expect from an Exponents release. It may put off a few fans, but at least they’ll find some solace in the bonus disc; seven tracks recorded live, including a shocking version of Primal Scream’s ‘Rocks’, and a sing-along version of ‘Victoria’.
Artist: NEIL YOUNG AND CRAZY HORSE 
Album: Year Of The Horse 
Record Label: Reprise
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Year Of The Horse is Young’s fourth live album, and the soundtrack to an upcoming concert film by Jim Jarmusch, which in part explains its eclectic (and very electric) contents. Songs included span the entirety of Young’s career — Buffalo’ Springfield’s ‘Mr. Soul.’ rubs shoulders with Rust’s ‘Sedan Delivery’; ‘Pocahontas’ does the same with a fiery, incandescent, ‘Barstool Blues’ (which alone would make this double CD release worth the price of admission). 
Crazy Horse themselves are in fine form. The meaning of the word ‘loose’ lies somewhere in their noisy, rugged, distinctly free-form rock, while Young’s guitar-playing again makes for interesting and sometimes breathtaking listening. If Horse doesn’t approach the apocalyptic grandeur of Weld a few years back, or the creative highs of the wonderful Rust Never Sleeps, Young and Crazy Horse here, sound like they’re having, for once, a hell of a good time. Highlights are the aforementioned ‘Barstool Blues’, a shambolic .‘Pocahontas’, and a mesmerising ‘When Your Lonely Heart Breaks’, which sounds like Kraftwerk might if they’d picked up a case of venereal disease and/or the bottle while on the road.
Take Horse as Young’s timely tribute to the band who’ve been there for him throughout the decades. They began life remember, way back, as an LA bar band, and that raw, no bullshit ethos has informed everything they’ve done. As usual, on Horse they play their asses off, and possess a glorious, somehow rustic dignity throughout. 
Not everything works of course — and Horse could well’ve been wheedled down to a single CD. But if you turn this up loud enough and close your eyes, it’s 1974 forever, and more is more and too much just right. As Neil says - “Smell the horse on this one!”. 
Artist: kd LANG 
Album: Drag 
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON
The attraction of kd lang has long lain in not just the things she said, but in the way she said them. With her latest album being not only a concept album but also a covers album, half of that attraction has been lost. Sure, the mere idea of a concept album means there’s a message in there — in this case that love, like smoking, is an addiction - but it’s the simple fact that we know all of the songs she’s chosen that robs us of the lasting pleasure of hearing a song like ‘Outside Myself’, ‘Hush Sweet Lover’, or 'You’re OK’, for the first time. Still, there is no doubting the obvious affection in kd’s vocal tributes to these songs’ original recordings. The likes of standards like ‘Don’t Smoke in Bed’ - and the addition to it of a twangy kind of grandeur, thanks to Kevin Breit’s guitar - shouldn’t surprise anyone, but the selection of songs like ‘The Air that I Breathe’ (finely executed and ‘The Joker’ (what could she do?) may seem to many like her second coming out of the closet, and certainly gives double meaning to the album’s title. 
Artist: FAITH NO MORE
Album: Album Of The Year 
Record Label: Slash
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
It has been easy to feel puzzled and alienated by Faith No More in recent years, with their sense of irony developing to zen-like proportions, and creating a stylistic unpredictability that left you confused about what exactly they had become and where they were headed. While their last album, King Fora Day, Fool For A Lifetime was an impressively edgy (though rather impersonal) affair, its focus was no doubt hindered by the necessity of using a fill-in guitarist; which is not an issue this time round as new guy Jon Hudson has been successfully transplanted into their brand of uneasy listening, and Album Of The Year possesses the exciting ensemble vibe of a revitalised band with some strong new material.
Ranging from frantic to soothing, this eclectic collection of songs illuminates the band’s collective power, and considerable individual strengths. Roddy Bottum’s apocalyptic keyboard washes are used sparingly (and in tandem with the guitar in a way that hasn’t been possible since Big Jim Martin went off the rails) to heighten the sense of drama they create throughout; while the rhythmic foundation on which the songs are built, are solid enough to support an entire city. In the quieter moments, Mike Patton’s elegant torch-singer style is both smooth and unsettling, and when the going gets tougher, the intensity of his delivery now resembles a demented preacher with the soul of a serial killer. All this is brought together by a huge production from Roli Mosimann (Swans), and if you need any further encouragement, the initial pressing includes a bonus disc of remixes.' Definitely a contender. 
Artist: REPUBLICA 
Album: Republica 
Record Label: Deconstruction
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
It’s not gonna be Blur, Oasis or the Charlatans who lead the next British invasion of America. Bush showed the way with their shameless, second-hand post-grunge mannerisms. Their accessible mediocrity sold bundles, and now Republica are doing the same in the US of A. Packaged as five Londoners disenchanted with Britpop, and led by Saffron, a sort of Kate Bush meets Debbie Harry, Republica are a shrewd blend of digestible techno and air punching hard rock. The two versions of ‘Ready To Go’ on the album are typical examples of the latter — the song is so custommade, charged-rock Americana, that the New York Rangers ice hockey team have adopted it as their anthem.
And for the ecstacy brigade, songs like ‘Bloke’ and ‘Out Of The World’ provide the necessary dance heat. But their techno/rock crossover is all too derivative and too ordinary, to be the challenging, subversive force Republica think they are. Born for MTV. 
Artist: PRIMAL SCREAM 
Album: Vanishing Point 
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
When they went all Stonesey Crows of Black, I thought all was lost. Well, ‘Rocks’ was fun I guess, before it became and office party anthem for accountants and secretaries. But shit, these guys were the maestros behind Screamadelica, one of the most important dance albums. And Give Out But Don’t Give Up was like the Chemical Brothers doing a country standards album. So thank God this is a musical swing back.
Like the 70s road movie that inspired the album title (it was about this ex-race car driver who loses it on Benzedrine and is chased by the cops through deserts), so it appears like there are some demons chasing Ver Scream, and they’re doing an introspective Radiohead. Mad good sounds, just lacking in anthems. There’s still a bit of rock on ‘Medication’, and there’s a mutant crypto-funk version of Motorhead’s ‘Motorhead’, but the rest of the album slips into the darker side of paranoid dance (Bad-Trip Hop?). ‘Out of the Void’ is just that, a crawling mantra that talks you out of The Fear. There’s a bunch of instrumentals that sound richly retro laced, like the Beastie Boyish ‘Get Duffy’ and the messy grunt breaks of ‘lf They Move, Kill em’. There’s a fantastic recall to the Dixie Narco EP with the sweet soul of ‘Star’. And of course there’s ‘Trainspotting’.
Vanishing Point is the sound of minds that were going so fast they turned into butter. And it’s surprisingly tasty. 
Artist: KARMA TO BURN 
Album: Karma To Burn 
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
There’s a whole lot of people out there with a Kyuss-shaped emptiness in their lives; and while the sizzling valve ‘stoner rock’ of Fu Manchu and Gamma Ray goes some way towards compensating, it doesn’t quite fill the void. Karma To Burn have no ex-Kyuss alumni in their ranks, but possess a bottom-heavy power and control of dynamics recalling the expansive moments of Sky Valley and And The Circus Leaves Town, and their debut album has the solid grooves and head rush potential that could keep a desert generator party humming until sunrise. Many of these songs were written before the arrival of a vocalist, some remain in instrumental form, and roll along with a sort of Black Sabbath momentum; but when the vocals of Jason Jarosz kick in, it’s taken to a whole other.level.' (It’s hard to. imagine ‘Patty' Hearst’s Closet Mantra’ or ‘Ma Petit Mort’ without the vocal interplay, or ‘Twin Sisters and a Bottle of Bourbon’ and ‘Appalachian Woman’ without the sinister growl). A sense of ominous weight lies on the periphery of Karma To Burn’s music, building over the course of the album like dark thunderclouds creating a tension that does not break, or give the satisfaction of release. (In this context, the cover of Joy Division’s ‘Twenty Four Hours’ does not seem as out of place as it appears on paper). Remember, prolonged or excessive use may cause damage to your hearing or stereo equipment, but with a record like this, it’s near impossible to keep the volume down.
Artist: CAKE 
Album: Fashion Nugget
Record Label: Capricorn
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
The word quirky is bandied about pretty recklessly these days — but if any band fits the profile, it’s California’s, Cake. Let’s look at the evidence. Quirky song titles; ‘Friend is a Four Letter Word’, ‘Stickshifts and Safetybelts’, ‘ltalian Leather Sofa’. And to match the titles, some quirky lyrics: ‘The land where large, fuzzy dice still hang proudly like testicles from rear-view mirrors’ (‘Race Car Ya-Ya’s’), and, ‘While Frank Sinatra sings ‘Stormy Weather’, the flies and spiders get along together, cobwebs fall on an old skipping record’ (‘Frank Sinatra’). How about quirky use of instruments? Cake are doin’ it; serious use of brass — not a song goes by without a good trumpet solo; cheesy organ — sometimes it forms the basis of a whole song. So yeah, Cake, they’re pretty quirky — all they really need is a zany cover version and they’d be up their with the quirkiest. What? They do? Song seven — a straight-laced, very unfunky cover of the Gloria Gaynor’s disco anthem ‘I Will Survive’. Wow, quirky. 
Artist: NICOLETTE 
Album: DJ Kicks 
Record Label: K 7 
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Well it feels like this has been sitting at the bottom of the review pile for months. Er, actually, it has’ And you're asking yourself why? Because most of the German DJ Kicks series are spot on (Kruder + Dorfmeister etc).
I guess if you really liked Nicolette’s latest album, you’d be more in tune with her dance tastes on this compilation. But if you thought her best work was with Massive Attack and Shut Up And Dance, and felt Let No-one Live Rent Free In your Mind was patchy at best, then this ain’t the album for you.
The best pickings include Doc Scott (sounding lighter than usual), CJ Bolland’s pounding cacophony ‘Nightbreed’, Shut Up And Dance, and of course Nicolette herself. But in between are a bunch of obscurities that were obviously quite easy to clear. And the intermixing is almost non-existent. You can do better.
Artist: DAVID BYRNE 
Album: Feelings 
Record Label: Luaka Bop
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
It seems the sticker-placers that be have no interest in the works of David Byrne. Maybe they were fooled, by the Ken-doll cover art, but this is one American who certainly isn’t ‘all’ there for the flag waving cause, and doesn’t mind throwing in the ‘F’ word that so freaks the censors to make his point. The David Byrne doll may be slick-looking, smart, quirky and funny, but he is also a one-off, as models displaying his different emotions pay testament to - and that he has different emotions to display is the core of this album’s exploration. It’s a real musical melting pot, with collaborations from sources as diverse as Morcheeba and Devo. Snappy orchestrations meet robo-vocals, hoe-down sounds meet rock combos, and Byrne’s witty observations on the wars within, and how they reflect the wars without, are as well-worded and personally pared to the point as ever atop this whole highly infectious melange. 
Artist: VOODOO GLOW SKULLS 
Album: Baile De Los Locos 
Record Label: Epitaph
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Too often, bands clumsily combine musical styles, or flit between them, in an attempt to disguise how clueless they are about innovation, creativity and whatever stretches the imagination to make music interesting. In recent years, punk rock in particular has been plagued by this sort of dreary mishmashing — you know, the ska part leads to the really fast bit, and the shouty chorus, then some vocal harmonies, etc. Now, when a truly inspired band like the Voodoo Glow Skulls comes along, containing elements of what you thought hackwork had bastardised and destroyed forever, it’s invigorating enough to remind you what made the stuff exciting in the first place.
The frenetic Mexican-American hardcore of the Voodoo Glow Skulls, stylishly played with verve and dangerously high energy levels — filled out with a brass section of trumpet, saxophone and trombone — draws on a number of musical traditions from both sides of the border and elsewhere. And not the thin, lightweight pap pathetically emulating the past to which we’ve become accustomed, either. Balls-to-the-wall attitude-infused hardcore punk, with ska, big band dance - mamba and Tijuana styles, and hey, even some Memphis soul: all delivered here with a single-minded focus that creates a unique, exciting sound; and containing a vibrancy that sneers at trashy nostalgia. Wild, fun, and essential.
Artist: INDIGO GIRLS 
Album: Shaming Of The Sun 
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
Shaming Of The Sun finds indigo Girls extending themselves in all the right directions. Never an easy band to categorise, the duo of Emily Saliers and Amy Ray picked up a Grammy for best folk album with their debut release in 1989. And while their music has a folk grounding, Indigo Girls musical vision has often displayed rock leanings, whilst also encompassing elements of world music. On Shaming Of The Sun, just about every element of the duo’s musical personalities is given an airing and the results are, invariably, quite remarkable. Their rockist urges are given free rein on a number of tracks, but it’s not at the expense of their introspective side. Which means that for every ‘Don’t Give That Girl A Gun’, a rockin’ gem of a song which sounds like a longlost Springsteen out-take, you’ll get the likes of the evocative piano ballad ‘Leeds’, or the sumptuous, string-drenched ‘Caramia’. 
Occasionally Indigo Girls trip up — the railing of ‘Scooter Boys’ may be forcing a point too far, while ‘Cut It Out’, with its riff lifted directly from REM’s ‘Oddfellows Local 151’, shows Indigo Girls were at least one good idea short for a full album. But for the most part, Shaming Of The Sun is a winning cocktail of exemplary song smithery, imbued with a rare soul and passion. Impeccable. 
Artist: NEFARIOUS
Album: The Devil And The Outlaw 
Record Label: Handgun Syndicate
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM
Nefarious. Jacked up on a lethal cocktail of rock ‘n’ roll mythology (no, not Jerry Lee Lewis, think GG Allin, the Misfits etc.), frustration, and unspecified (yeah, right) substances, they want your soul. Not that it’s any use to ‘em, they just want to piss you off. The New Plymouth band with links to Sticky Filth, Toxic Avengers, and the Goat Fucking Nun Rapers, blast out a nasty, raw and misogynistic (duh) hardcore melange with little time for subtlety. It’s straight down the centre line, fast, hard, and driven by who knows what demons — the demons of stupid? The demons of lazy? The demons of don’t know better? Whatever, at least they don’t try to be something they’re not — intelligent. The appearance of well known comic artist Martin Emond injects a bit of knowing humour (like, y’know, irony), where it’s so obviously lacking. Yeah, yeah, it’s all so fuckin’ rock ‘n’ roll, it’s almost beyond reproach. Tracks like ‘Fist Full of Filth’, ‘Nefarious Outlaw', and ‘Holiday in Hell’ deal out the chugging loser anthems, that almost make you empathise and start guzzling cheap bourbon, cheaper beer, pills, ’shrooms... who knows what comes next? 
Artist: BABY MAMMOTH 
Album: 10 000 Years Under the Street 
Album: Bridging Two Worlds
Record Label: Pork
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
Well, of all the brilliant Pork product out there, there had to be a weak link in the molten liquid groove chain. Baby Mammoth certainly possess the most removed sound from their label’s usual home of laid back soul soothers. More beats, more contemporary beats, more contemporary Chicago house/Detroit techno influenced beats. More of the same sort of stuff that thousands of other labels are doing then. 
DJ Bliss and Andy Burdell make up the little woolly elephants. Their first expedition, 10 000 Years is a classy blah that’ll take you inside their subterranean beat lair, only after repeated listens. But it’s aged badly compared to your Fila Brazilias and Solid Doctors. Whereas Bridging Two Worlds moves them ever closer to their label’s soul base, with the techno and sax canoodlings .being washed over, to the point of almost sonic asphyxiation by their newfound love of the lush. Good is the enemy of great though. 
Artist: STONED
Album: Music For The Morons
Artist: FUNBOX 
Album: VXXII 
Record Label: Onefoot
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
Onefoot Records may be a little hit or miss when it comes to quality acts, but if nothing else, their output is prolific as barely a month goes by without some new releases. The latest albums in their global quest for the best come from Sweden and Canada. 
Stoned (who’s album cover has a ‘Onefoot Skate Release’ sticker — the indie version of niche marketing, at a guess) describe their music as ‘happy ska core', but it’s not quite as dire as that sounds. A young Swedish five piece, these boys are tuneful, competent and good humoured punk rock — not particularly distinguishable from many other bands, though they do understand there’s more to writing a song than just playing the same notes at the same speed as each other. The ska’s a little antiseptic, but they redeem themselves with a not so tongue in cheek cover of Iron Maiden’s ‘The Trooper’, giving it almost the urgency of the original. 
Funbox — who have nothing but the best intentions judging by their lyrics and liner notes — just can’t pull it off, and their album sounds unfinished, under-rehearsed and completely unimaginative. Whining, out of key vocals, dreadful guitar playing and an inability to stay in time, indicates these guys would be better off starting a fanzine if they really want to do the punk scene a favour; because while self-belief is a positive thing, self-delusion will lead you nowhere. Oh yeah — the cover art sucks as well. 
Artist: BROWN, SCHARIN & WARDEN 
Album: Directions In Music 
Record Label: Thrill Jockey
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Thankfully unrelated to any of those dire threesomes of modern music, ala Stock/Aitken, Bachman/Turner or Emerson/Lake, Directions In Music is the sound of an alternative combo keeping well left of any commercial or rock flirtations. Mr Brown is related to Tortoise, so those familiar with that body of his work would expect a heavy dose of ambient guitar rock, treated with doses of modern electronica. However it may come as surprise then, that this collaboration stays mostly within the realms of instrumental guitar noodlings, dosed with a respectable amount of appropriate feedback.
Not being too contrary to bands such as Phonocomb, and Pell Mell, all eight tracks fit well into that hung over, mellow, Sunday morning blob with the papers and a huge bar of chocolate feel. None too startling but nonetheless enjoyable for those quiet moments of inward reflection. 
Artist: MEGADETH
Album: Cryptic Writings
Record Label:Capitol
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN
You might not pick this as being a Megadeth album by the cover, as there’s no horrid, offensive (to some) imagery or any sign of that mascot skully thing. So don’t mistake this for Collective Soul on the outside, as it sure ain’t them on the inside. Anyway, Megadeth are still alive and kicking hard, and Cryptic Writings is the most musically focused bunch of songs they’ve ever released. 
It was inevitable that Dave Musjain’s career was going to be in direct comparison to his ex-band, Metallica, but now their paths are closer than ever. Both have shed their speed-thrash roots, and adopt-. ed-a more mainstream heavy rock mode — which is fine if it means the playing is of a higher calibre. Opinions are bound to be divided on this, as musicians are often deemed to be ‘selling out’ if they are unfortunate enough to sell more than a million copies of their recordings (or is it ten copies these days?). However well it does, Megadeth are sure to be proud of themselves with this one, as it’s packed with energy and a supertightness that can only be achieved by sticking at it together for as long as they have. Even Mustaine’s vocals aren’t that annoying.
Artist: THIRD EYE BLIND
Album: Third Eye Blind
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
Third Eye Blind are a San Francisco four-piece who caused a record company bidding war before finally signing with Elektra. That was before they’d even released an album — the various company execs obviously saw potential for some serious moolah in these guys. Not surprising really, as Third Eye Blind write insanely catchy tunes, the sort that somehow sound familiar even on the first listen. The first single, ‘Semi-charmed Life’, is especially of the toe-tapping variety, and firmly supports the claims that these guys may just be this year’s Green Day. Singer Stephan Jawkins writes about, “the twin salvos of regret and vindication”. Well that’s what the bio says — I obviously didn’t listen close enough to pick up on the intricacies of his writing. One thing’s for sure though, we’re going to hear a lot more of these guys in the months to come. 
Artist: A FLOCK OF SEAGULLS
Album: The Light at the End of the World
Record Label: Big Shot
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON 
Well, this is fairly unnecessary, and I’m not totally certain who it’s supposed to appeal to. Surely all those old new romantics fans have grown up by now, and moved on to trip hop or swamp rock, or some other genre that will fade like the rest onto the muddy pool of history. Still gotta give the old buggers credit, they’ve stuck at it long enough, and kept their original haircuts. But one of the lessons we hoped everyone would learn from the 80s was, a haircut does not a band make (it can go a long way though). 
So, what’s the album like? Bland and dull (as they always were), way dated, unsexy, and very unrock ‘n’ roll; the poor old guitarist tries a few ‘machine gun’ things through ‘Ordinary Man’ to inject a R’n’R element to proceedings — fails of course (the synth will always get ’em). So, wait for ‘I Ran’ to turn up on the soundtrack to Reality Bites 2, and don’t spoil the nostalgia with this overblown bollocks. 
Artist: MEREDITH BROOKS 
Album: Blurring The Edges
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL
Meredith Brooks, hmmm. Sounds like a character in Melrose Place. Sure enough, it’s evident from the cover artwork that Brooks’ has ‘the look’, and the title of the album’s first single, ‘Bitch’, would fit in rather well with your typical Melrose plot. But the two words which most spring to mind when Brooks hits her straps on the chorus of ‘Bitch’ are not Melrose Place, but Alanis Morissette. Actually they don’t so much spring to mind as blast into your retinas with the force of a multi-platinum, Grammy award winning, 2 million watt light bulb. Have mercy, oh cruel and vengeful God. Haven’t we had enough of the real one, without having to endure this sort of slavish imitation?
After the promising start of the opening track ‘I Need’, ‘Bitch’ is a stumble from which Blurring The Edges is unable to recover. Every subsequent track becomes an exercise in ‘spot the influence’ — a touch of Tori here, a spoonful of Sleeper there. For good measure, there’s a dash of Chrissie Hynde on the side and, yes, further generous lashings of Morissette. Not helping matters is the chromium-plated production sheen, which robs the album of its humanity, while the identi-kit, angst-by-numbers delivery has rendered many of the songs as hollow as Brooks’ finely sculpted cheekbones. 
While Brooks’ may sing her songs with conviction, on Blurring The Edges, her rock ‘n’ roll heart sounds as if it’s on loan from someone else.
Artist: BRICKSHITHOUSE/FOISEMASTER 
Album: Brickshithouse / Foisemaster
Record Label: Lizardmull
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Two albums for the price of one, I wonder how much discussion there was about who would get the first spot on the disc? Brickshithouse won the toss, and for eight tracks these Levin twin guitar noise meisters puke up four to five minute epics. The guitars do interesting things for the most part, but the incessant hardcore drum sound wears thin on my welcome very quickly. Here’s hoping their second (solo) album, that’s due shortly, will develop a tad more idiosyncratic character.
Foisemaster are punkers in the old school vein, making noise and having fun while dong it, their thirteen tracks show a healthy disrespect for current fashions of punkdom. A large portion clock in at under two minutes, and share a comradery with such chaotic outfits as Flipper (first time around), right down to poking fun at everything — ‘Song For Kiri’ and ‘Food Nazis’ for example. Occasionally the fun spills over into absurd or downright dumb, ‘My First Piss On The Library Building’ for instance, but the inclusion of a faithful version of ‘Midget Submarines’ by the Swell Maps, is enough to forgive what is really a small glitch on an otherwise fun noise-r-coaster. 
Artist: SAMMY HAGAR 
Album: Marching To Mars
Record Label: Universal
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN
The controversial split from Van Halen, after a decade of being their lead singer, inspired the lyrics of the first track on Sammy’s new recording. ‘Little White Lies’ are apparently what his ex-bandmates are telling the press about the circumstances of his departure. But from the word go, it’s obvious that Sammy is confident about having his own career back and is making the best of it. The catchy blues-based single is a harmonica accompanied foot stamper, and ‘Do It For Free’ is a funkin’ cool jazzy number that really stands out (to a large degree because of the contribution by Bootsy Collins on bass). The general style though is basically along the same lines as what Sammy’s been doing ever since he joined Montrose back in 73; rocking out and singing the praises of cars (‘I Can’t Drive 55’), sex (‘Poundcake’), drugs (‘Amsterdam’) and rock ‘n’ roll (most of the rest). In fact his old pals from Montrose regrouped to play on ‘Warmth Of The Womb’ but it’s not the rip-roaring Ronnie of yesteryear. Hagar himself is no slouch on guitar either, as you’d have to be of a certain standard to have been jamming with Edward VH.
Marching To Mars may seem like standard fare from the red rocker, but maybe there’s more to it than first listen suggests. Play it again Sam! 
Artist: POWERMAN 5000 
Album: Mega!!Kung Fu Radio
Record Label: Dreamworks
Artist: SNOT 
Album: Get Some 
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
In this post-grunge world, the heavier end of the alternative spectrum is pretty much dominated by bands possessing a rolling funk bass backbone, swathes of metallic power rifting accentuated by barbs of lead guitar, rap-inflected vocals and big, dramatic dynamics. This is Korn and Rage Against The Machine country, and hordes of new hopefuls are beginning to invade this land of opportunity, some by design and others by default. Take Powerman 5000, or PMSK, who appear to have one foot in this territory and the other in a parallel dimension. There’s no angst or righteous political anger here; just some suave grooves tempered by explosions of hard rocking action, with a lurid splash of popular culture colour provided chiefly by head honcho, Spider. His lyrical concerns are inspired mostly by cartoons and movies (real and imagined), and it’s his vocals — he mutters, howls and hollers — that really gives the music its specific, and quite beguiling, character. His brother may be in White Zombie, but PM5K’s music is a closer relative of Regurgitator’s — and if a coat-tail ride was desired, there would have been an easier musical route to hitch one on. On the other hand, with Snot, a whiff of opportunism is easily detected. Technically proficient musicianship (G.I.T. or M.I.T. by any chance, people?), an- angry-sounding singer, and good production from a name producer is no substitute for soul and passion; and this metal/funk/rap/ fusion crossover is mostly a lukewarm and tiresome affair, with the emphasis, on making it rather than meaning it. Bogus. 
Artist: THE MADDING CROWD 
Album: The Man With The Crooked Ear 
Record Label: TNZ
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON 
After Stark, one might have predicted Stephan Wolf would go down the path paved by Alex Chilton with ‘Sister Lovers’, where fragile songs become even more so, and structure is forsaken for heart broken, drunken ramblings. Thankfully the opposite has occurred. Wolf has gathered his bandmates around, to prop him up and flesh out skeletal songs into artful pop gems. 
Wolf’s gravelly, deadpan delivery is tempered by Catherine Tunks’ lilting and colourful voice. Nowhere is this more evident than on the perfect pop of ‘Morning Flower’ in which the sheer beauty of the sentiments expressed, contrasted with Wolf’s borderline harsh style, makes the song reminiscent of ‘Perfect Day’.
Various genres float around the peripheries of the songs. On the folk flavour of ‘Dance the Can Can’ and the Spanish ‘Falling’, both songs are enhanced by their particular direction, rather than it being an unnecessary diversion as can be the case when bands their influences too openly on their sleeves. 
Artist: WHITESNAKE
Album: Restless Heart
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN
Reputed to be the last release under the name Whitesnake, it’s pretty much David Coverdale sticking to his usual formula. He’s retained the musicians from the project with Jimmy Page, and brought back previous collaborator Adrian Vandenberg, to perform all guitar duties. The album is lighter in content that the mega-selling 1987 and Slip Of The Tongue, having a rhythm and blues feel more akin to his first solo album. On a few songs the female backing vocals add a pleasant touch as David sings of his woes in the ways of love. Most of the words seem to be directed at porn star Tawney Kitaen who he split up with a while back. His pleas are ‘Stay With Me’ and ‘Take Me Back’ because he’s shed ‘Too Many Tears’ from ‘Woman Trouble Blues’. The heaviest number is ‘Crying’ which almost carbon copies ‘Still Of The Night’, and that was a bit of a nicked Zeppelin riff in the first place. Coverdale still has what it takes as a vocalist, but with music as predictable as this it’s no wonder that he’s decided to put his Snake away. 
Artist: COOL FOR AUGUST 
Album: Grand World 
Record Label: Warners
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Recent visitors and subjects of this month’s next big thing tag are this LA based band, consisting of one American, vocalist Gordon Vaughan, and three Canadians. The hype surrounding Grand World is understandable (in a sad, pragmatic, market-forces kinda way), if not deserved.
Four serious, white, dedicated, soulful guys, who sound a bit like Counting Crows, with traces of (older) U2, and even the dreaded Dave Mathews Band thrown in for good measure. If Cool For August didn’t exist, some A&R man would’ve had to invent them. Vocalist Vaughan is as angsty and tuneful as required, and the band can run up an order of 90s slick, coiffeured rock with ease. 
Grand World was recorded in Atlanta because (and I quote the press-kit), “Atlanta provided a combination of both a supportive music scene and an environment isolated enough to allow them to get down to the serious business of recording an album”. Note the words ‘serious’ and ‘business’ all you Rock 101ers. You’ll either never hear of these guys again, or we’ll never be able to escape hearing them the length and breadth of the developed world. With songs (let alone titles) like ‘Don’t Wanna Be Here’, ‘On & On’, ‘Sylmar’, and ‘Hey You’, the former is a distinct possibility; but then no-one ever got poor underestimating... etc etc. 
Artist: CYNTHIA SHOULD 
Album: Mutton
Record Label: Yellow Eye
Reviewed By: DOMINIC WAGHORN
Here I am, tapping my foot along to the first few numbers on this debut album from Cynthia Should, thinking it sounds a little bit like the Mutton Birds, when blow me down, I notice for the first time the album’s called Mutton. An insignificant coincidence you may say, but Dunedin’s Cynthia Should do share a style of songwriting with the Mutton Birds. Their sound is based around mature guitar songs, intricate in design but with a definite accessibility. And if singer Chris Muir doesn’t sound at least a little like McGlashan, then I’m..., well, I’m hearing things. Nice harmonies too; on a number of songs (‘Sinner’, ‘The Day Before’), guitarist Shane Gilchrist backs up Muir’s voice with his own, creating some interesting, almost eerie soundscapes. The only thing that really lets this release down is inconsistency. Cynthia Should’s piece of Mutton, while impressive, is a little patchy. 
Artist: Bloom 
Album: Adult Themes 
Record Label: Swerve
Reviewed By: JESSE GARON
You know any band who include Vladimir Nabokov in their ‘thanks to...’ list are not about to dumb down their pretensions or sing songs about snogging at the drive in. No, as the title suggests, Bloom have released an album especially for grown ups with lots of sex, death, genetic engineering, and cell phones... all behind a generic coating of sub Massive Attack type electronic smoooooothness. 
‘Song Noir’ opens the album and is their most complete track. Melita Jansen’s vocals tell us a dark tale of yuppie death and cocktail horror. But from there it all fades into of synth-induced moods and repetitive images. I quite like the call and response style of ‘W.A.S.M’, but the song tries to get a bit clever and becomes clumsy and overladen with words (plus it is the second time on the album the band use ‘genes\jeans’ as a lyrical trick — let’s not overdo the gag).
Sure, everything’s totally competent, and Jansen does have a voice in a million, but ultimately this is forgettable music for those who base their personal philosophy on Cleo quizzes and videoed repeats of City Life: as much substance as latte froth. 
Artist: LINOLEUM 
Album: Dissent 
Record Label: Geffen
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
Three singles and straight onto the majors, seems like a Brit-pop wet dream. Combine a healthy rotate on John Peel’s show, the Reading Festival, and a recording session at Massachusetts’ Fort Apache, and it seems a charmed life is in progress. Thankfully, Linoleum may possibly give Anglo pop a much needed shot in the arm.
The opener, ‘Marquis’, aided my Saturday night / Sunday morning quite nicely, when I threw Dissent on for the first listen. Caroline Finch’s vocals wander through a labyrinth of emotions and styles; melancholy, earnest, sweet and sour, while Paul Jones’ guitar lays waste to the droning pap of the current champion’s calculated posturing. Influences can be positive or negative, and Linoleum wear their’s most comfortably, unashamed to pronounce them aurally, all the while understanding that the imperfections of their heroes are the true elements of their uniqueness. Included in their list of publicity name droppings are Sebadoh, Pixies, Velvet Underground, Sonic Youth and Gang of Four. It is the English influence such as the early guitar clashings of GO4 that pervade the album, sounding like a better educated (musically) Elastica, tempered by a knowledge of space. Need further convincing to check Linoleum out? Start with ‘Ray Liotta’ and ‘She’s Sick’, then flick the player to random and enjoy. Not perfect by any stretch, the melodrama can get too much for a couple of tracks, but make no mistake, Linoleum possess the nous to improve on a sterling first effort. 
Artist: JIM MORRISON 
Album: The Ultimate Collected Spoken Words 1967-1970 
Record Label: OZIT
Reviewed By: GEOFF DUNN
Shouldn’t this be called Dead Man Talking? The intro track which edits together statements by Jim in an audio collage is quite interesting to listen to. That is if you compare it to the remainder of this 2CD set of meandering ramblings from the ‘stoned articulate’ man. Maybe there are some deep and meaningful quotes to be found in here, but only the kind of person that travels to Paris just to visit his grave could get much enlightenment from it. For Doorspotters, or even better, used as a doorstopper.