Artist: JOHN B 
Album: Visions 
Record Label: New Identity
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
John B is a 20 year old undergraduate, studying Genetics And Microbiology at Durham University, who has taken the drum and bass world by storm. Visions displays B as a master of drum and bass, and delivers what must be one of the top dance albums of the year, regardless of genre. 
Disc one of this double album, entitled 'Organic', is a collection of B's jazzy drum and bass artistry r Live brass, mixed with electronic strings and magnificently engineered drum programming, creates a soundscape of audible bliss. 'Synthetic', disc two, is a 60 minute digital mix of the dancefloor orientated tracks that have made B widely known around the world. 'Synthetic' features the dancefloor filler 'Secrets', an intensely moody track which thrust B into the spotlight early last year. Also here is the incredible 'Starburst', that pays homage to the talents of early electronic maestro 'Vangelis'. Sandwiched between those two tracks are a selection of fine drum and bass tracks which span the breadth of the spectrum, and B is at home in whatever drum and bass style he chooses to dabble in. With Visions, he has produced an amazing example of drum and bass excellence. 
Artist: TRYST 
Album: Tryst
Record Label: Alchemy
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Tryst is a collaboration between New Zealand born vocalist Carrie Beehan and Berlin based producer Warner Poland. With their self titled, debut album they deliver an electronic record influenced by the sounds of drum and bass, trip hop, trance, electro, and pop. Poland appears to have a vast knowledge of the aforementioned dance music genres, and he blends these influences expertly on the album. 
Tryst is an album bursting with lush electronic noises and Beehan's moody vocals. It reminds me of the British dance/pop crossover bands Olive and Everything But the Girl, although Tryst have chosen a more experimental canvas, in that they explore more musical styles and have more of an underground dance edge to them. A very classy debut.
Artist: JOSH WINK 
Album: Here Hear
Record Label: Columbia
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Josh Wink, the man who created the monster acid stormer 'Higher State of Consciousness', returns with more distorted acid noise squelchers, which are bound to take the acid-heads to a new astral plane. Don't expect an album of constant frenetic activity, however, many of these tracks are below 100 bpms and roll along at a leisurely, almost serene pace. Two fine examples of this are 'Sixth Sense' and Tm on Fire', featuring the dreamy vocals of guests Ursula Rucker and Caroline Crawley, respectively. Elsewhere, guest vocals come courtesy of the less than dreamy Trent Reznor, adding a rough distorted drawl to 'Black Bomb'. 
Wink's talent seems to lie in building and raising the intensity of a track, then toying with the energy levels throughout, beautifully crafting a sonic journey. Unfortunately, Here Hear doesn't boast a single track to match the intensity of 'Higher State of Consciousness', although 'Are You There...' attempts to come close.
All the same, Here Hear, won't disappoint those partial for 303 acidic squelches in light and dark form, with a few tasteful vocal contributions.
Artist: THE NOMAD 
Album: Movement
Record Label: Swarm
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
A locally written and produced drum and bass album, which shows The Nomad has the technology, but may be lacking in fresh ideas and sounds. Many of the ideas on Movement are interesting, but there are too many obvious sounds and samples contained within, giving it a feel of a cut-and-paste album. Sound after sound is seemingly copied straight from UK productions — largely without much new artistry or fresh ingredients added.
On the positive side, the production and engineering by Salmonella Dub's soundman Tiki is of the highest standard. It proves that New Zealand has the engineering and production skills of the major overseas players. But overall, composition wise, this is an average drum and bass album, one which simply failed to excite.
Artist: SMITH AND MIGHTY 
Album: DJ Kicks 
Record Label: K 7 
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
DJ Kicks is an impressive collection of Roots Reggae, Dub, and Drum and Bass, mixed and selected by Smith and Mighty. The album begins with a journey through contemporary reggae and dub, with the gorgeous sounds of horn blasts, keyboards, guitar phasing, incredible EQ work, delays, and sound effects providing an audible feast. Getting down to specifics, the album contains the Bacharach and David composition 'Walk On By', souped up for the late 90s with breakbeats and sonic effects. DJ Lynx's, 'Quite Frankly', is a powerful scratch-and-beat cut with an irresistible groove. Smith and Mighty's 'Anyone', that features Jackie Jackson on vocals, is a fresh moody track with slow hip-hop beats, and airy samples. And the More Rockers' 'Night Fall', with its speedy breakbeats and reggae vocals is another early highlight. 
The album moves into the faster breakbeat realm of current dub/reggae-influenced, jungle/drum and bass, produced by the likes of More Rockers and Gang Related. This is a sound collection, chosen and deftly mixed by a team that know their shit. Highly recommended. 
Artist: DJ VADIM
Album: U.S.S.R. Reconstruction
Record Label: Ninja Tune
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
Remix albums are often risky affairs, as it can be difficult to strike a balance between emphasising the sound of the remixer, and retaining the vision of the original artist. U.S.S.R. Reconstruction sees trip/hip hop DJ Vadim remixed by Kid Koala, Oval, the Herbaliser, Techno Animal, DJ Krush, and Clatterbox, amongst others, and finds a near perfect middle ground.
The reworkings and rearrangements range from traditional Ninja-styled neohip hop, to apocalyptic dark dub, to distorted drum and bass, and take Vadim onto another level of breakbeat excellence.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Psycho Trance 5 / Mixed by Daz Saund
Record Label: Moonshine
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
A surprisingly good mix of the underground sounds of Trance, as chosen by Daz Saund, a well known and sought after DJ/Producer on the European continent.
These tracks are on the darker and more obscure edge of the trance/techno genre, and features artists from quality labels such as Missile, Soma, Tresor, and Plus 8. This is not 'trance pop', so all John Digweed and Sasha disciples should steer clear, unless you want to be enlightened into what else is available in this genre. Otherwise, for those who have been disenchanted by the seemingly pop-based trance of the last 12 months, Psycho Trance 5 may be a welcome relief.
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Brassic Beats Vol. 3
Record Label: Skint
Reviewed By: Dave Roper
This marks the hat-trick for the Skint label in their series of 'big beat' compilations. 'Big beat' is the term used for the dance juxtaposition of huge hip hop breaks, funky basslines, acid noise, and many a sample. Brassic Beats Vol. 3 boasts the heavy weight talents of the Lo-Fidelity All Stars, Fatboy Slim (the latest project from journeyman Norman Cook) with 'Everybody Loves a Filter', Bentley Rhythm Ace with 'On Her Majesty's Secret Service'.
If you're after a competent big beat compilation which isn't too esoteric, then go for B.B. Vol. 3. It's a fine stage one lesson in big beat.
Artist: BERNARD BUTLER 
Album: People Move On 
Record Label: Sony
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
For a while it looked like Bernard Butler would end up leaving a great band only to drift into underachievement, like that other quintessentially English guitarist of the last 20 years, the Smiths' Johnny Marr. After all, Butler's writing partnership with Brett Anderson in Suede had created a powerful and evocative catalogue of English rock 'n' roll, and yet he left in 1994 with the band at the height of their powers. 
Two ambitiously fine singles with singer McAlmont followed, but then Butler lapsed into obscurity save for the odd one off appearance with the likes of Neneh Cherry, and his brief literally 15 minute stint as part of the Verve. But during this period he was writing, producing, playing and singing on his masterpiece, People Move On — an obvious allusion to his emotional and musical changes of the last seven years. And there won't be a better start to an album this year than the lush, bluesy Peter Green Fleetwood Mac era feel of 'Woman I Know', a style he brilliantly pulls off again on 'Autograph'. 
In an album dominated by ballads, probably the equal of those on the Verve's massive soul-searching Urban Hymns, Butler conjures up 'Not Alone', his new single and, if justice is done, should be this year's 'Bitter Sweet Symphony'. Less dramatic but still with faith and devotion, and a huge amount of personal intensity and sincerity, there's 'You Light the Fire', 'You've Got What it Takes', and the increasingly desperate plea of 'Stay'.
To date, Johnny Marr never came close to recreating the timeless music that he made with the Smiths. By comparison, with People Move On, Butler has vindicated his severance from Suede with an incredibly satisfying and soulful personal statement. Move on up. 
Artist: TRICKY 
Album: Angels With Dirty Faces
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
It's interesting timing. Just as his old duffers Massive Attack are about to release Mezzanine, full of their sultry trademark genius, the kid they called Tricky turns out some bleak post millennium blues. And while the world has caught up to Massive's way of thinking and is about to deliver them their biggest commercial success yet, Tricky, who launched with a big bang, has pushed the boundaries so far on Angels, no one will have any idea what he's on about until 2005!
Angels is the sound of Tricky discovering America. Not the fast cars, movie stars, full of big road movie guitars like your Primal Screams. This is roots America; paranoid blues, gospel choirs and post apocalyptic voodoo. The underground, the underbelly, the sell your soul at the crossroads and create some of the darkest, most menacing atmospheres this side of Brett Easton Ellis or Garth (Preacher) Ennis.
The pop/trip hop of Maxinquaye is long gone. Listen to 'Talk to Me' with its out-of-time beat insanity and slowmo industrial groans, and you'll think Pre Millennium Tension was a party starter. Then there's the epic, startling nightmares in the focussed 'Mary McLeary', and 'Broken Homes' with PJ Harvey's vocals backed by a lifting choir. Or try 'Demise' with its Ike and Tina references, or the narcoleptic old school of 'You', with the line, 'I deserve to die because of lies... I wanna blow my head off in Seattle.' It's not trying to shock — it's just the result of an increasingly disturbed mind full of too many demons to care. 
The instrumentals behind Tricky's throaty drawl are sounding numb, like he's continuing to lose touch with the reality around him. And though Martine is as stunning as ever, she's too often sounding like a slave to circumstances — doped to make the snuff movie more humane. And there's never a real chance for her to rise above the smog that Tricky seems oblivious to. 
Angels is an artist proving how low he can go, standing at the mouth of hell, hoarsely screaming the end is nigh. 
Artist: SHELLAC 
Album: Terraforms 
Record Label: Touch & Go
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON
You can be excused for being an unpleasant, opinionated little man, if, like Steve Albini, you have consistently channelled these negative attributes into turning out some of the most intelligent, innovative and interesting albums of the last decade or so ( Two Nuns And a Pack Mule excluded of course). This second album from Shellac is as explorative, against the grain, and entirely recognisable as any album from Albini's past. 
The first track, 'Didn't We Deserve a Look At You the Way You Really Are' is a spacious 10 minutes of irregular heartrate rhythm, biding time with teethgrindingly tense guitar jags, towards a sudden and disturbing conclusion. An unusual opener, but indicative of the twists and turnarounds on Terraforms. 'Mouthpiece', with its angular bass and guitar interplay skirting around a sharp hook, and the distressed lead melody of 'Rush Job' suggest accessibility, but for the sneering vocal barbs — most notably in the 'House Full of Garbage', where they 'make love with doodoo and faeces on the wall.' 
Free of embellishment and sonic trickery, Shellac have cooked up an aural Naked Lunch, the stripped sound illuminating the sickly white underbelly dangling from the end of your fork. It's not pretty, but it's honest — and at least you know what you're swallowing. 
Artist: JAMES IHA 
Album: Let It Come Down
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
I'm pretty sure I've heard every joke and insult going with regard to James lha's side project. That an alt-rock glamour prince should reveal a heart of sugary syrup seems beyond the comprehension of Smashing Pumpkins fans the world over — but who said this album was for them anyway? 
I can't get enough of these deceptively simple sounds, which remind me of a more gentle Lemonheads for current reference, and James Taylor et al, for anyone old enough to know what I'm talking about. Let It Come Down is an album of good lovin' love songs, which is remarkable enough in itself. Iha turns a vocal range which just climbs and climbs as the songs rolls by, seemingly spot checking on some supreme el basso tones every once in a while just to prove he can. He's no control freak though, enlisting help on backing vocals from Pumpkin D'arcy (on 'One and Two'), and Veruca Salt's Nina Gordon (on 'Beauty'), and assembling an absolutely dreamy band to ensure no space is ever less than aural candy of the softest sort. 
At the risk of having fruit thrown at me the multitudes of Zero t-shirt wearers out there, I will bravely state that my only complaint with regard to this album is it is all over too darn quickly. 
Artist: DAWN OF THE REPLICANTS 
Album: One Head, Two Arms, Two Legs
Record Label: East West
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL 
Doing nothing to dispel the stereotype of barmy Scotsmen, Dawn Of The Replicants beam their debut album in direct from somewhere over the rainbow (Galashiels, a small town on the Scottish borders, to be exact). Chock-full of DOTR's unique musical lunacy, One Head, Two Arms, Two Legs is by turns an inspiring, confusing, wilful, but never less than invigorating, romp through a twisted pop universe. Imagine, if you will, the Flaming Ups in kilts, or Bressa Greeting Haggis, and you'll be getting close to the DOTR sound. 
From the perfect, buzzsaw-pop opening of 'Cocaine On The Catwalk', through a swag of other highlights, ideas spew forth in an inventive musical torrent. The listener is barely given a chance to draw breath, before the arrival of another song sends the head spinning away on a fresh sonic tangent. If that all sounds too madcap, track 14, the restful 'Mary Louise', is more than able to soothe ragged nerves. The eye in DOTR's musical storm (complete with a sunkissed, Beach Boys-style fade-out), 'Mary Louise' proves that when DOTR choose to play it straight, they're capable of writing the most heartbreakingly beautiful ballad. Clever buggers then, and undoubtedly as mad as badgers, DOTR have served up the debut album of the year (so far). 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Shadows On A Flat Land
Record Label: SBR
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
If my flatmate was reviewing this, it'd go something like, "Trip hop out of Christchurch, ha ha ha, bollocks — like Zane [Breaks Co-op] only more boring." Sure, Christchurch may seem an unlikely place to churn out innovative trip hop, but then the brilliant Salmonella Dub are from there, and some of the most interesting trip hop did originate from Bristol — which is a depressing isolated hole as well. 
Shadows on a Flat Land is the brainchild of Jody Lloyd, one half of Dark Tower and the South Island's great hip hop hope. He's got together a bunch of that flat city's finest to turn out like a showcase experiment — and he's even got his dad in there! 
The 'Deep Sleep Song' (with Claire Falloon) is groovy in a Portishead kind of way. 'Nothing' (with Cinematic's Jeremy Taylor) groans along appropriately, with mandolin and violin giving it quite a Celtic feel. Lloyd's sister Demarnia (Mink) lends plenty of her velvety vocals, in a perfect breathy Beth Orton fashion, to three tracks, and it all sounds as good as the cool packaging looks. It's only the rap that lets Shadows down quite dramatically. The production is crisp and smooth in all the right places, the instrumental interludes are double top, and the samples and vocals texture and punctuate the tracks nicely. But chuck a bit of clumsy rap over the top and you're left reminding yourself they're doing well for local trip hop. 
Artist: VICTORIA WILLIAMS 
Album: Musings Of A Creek Dipper 
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL 
Her first studio album since 1994's Loose, Musings of a Creek Dipper stands as Victoria Williams' most complex and accomplished work to date. The complexity of Musings is not due to a wealth of deep and impenetrable lyrics, as Williams never strays far from her trademark wide-eyed lyrical naivety and schoolgirl-sweet singing voice. It's complex because here she has married her cuddly, home-spun storytelling to risky, instrumentally rich arrangements. As well as the customary guitar, bass and drums, Musings features a veritable Encyclopaedia Britannica of instruments — coronet, dulcimer, cello, synth, chamberlain, organ, calimba, flute, viola, banjo, clarinet, Rhodes piano, vibraphone, and even something called a siouxsaphone. 
And this is what makes Musings such a singularly accomplished effort, for given the potential for excess that this overabundance of instruments suggests, the album rarely sounds cluttered or overly mannered. Rather, it comes over as charmingly ramshackle and gratifyingly unique. Sure, it's a little kooky — and it's a million miles away from being fashionable (whatever that is) — but with Musings of a Creek Dipper, the dungaree-dad singer/ songwriter from Louisiana has produced an album of rich rewards. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album : Trip Hop Boutique
Record Label: Irma Molto Jazz
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Super Discount 
Record Label: Creative Vibes
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE 
Irma Records is a label straight out of the Italian home of spaghetti bolognaise (Bologna), so not surprisingly this spicy compilation has got just the right flavour (not too wet, not to bland). Opening with a Fatboy Slim remix of Eva's 'Jean Jacques Perry' can't hurt, and there's a Massive Attack remix of 'Love Will Be on Your Side', which isn't nearly as good as some of the brilliance off their forthcoming album, Mezzanine, but worth some ear-time none the less. Also here is some remixed Skylab, some funky bizzo from DJ Rodriguez with '4 Steps', and Hoover's synthed up 'lnhaler'. Some of the local Italian tracks are a bit lame, but all up its a different slice from the 'music genre formerly known as trip hop.' Great for sound sandwiches the next day. 
Also on the continental tip but much higher on the must-buy agenda is the French compilation Super Discount. More groovy DJ noodlings from the Daft Punk/Source Lab school of house. Pretty soon, everyone will be completely sick of the repetitive trance-like structures that don't so much progress through the songs but evolve like organic sensory ectoplasm. But right now it's sounding just fine. I won't bother with the names, 'cause you'd be lying if you said you'd heard of them. But the highest profile on the album is EDC's remix of Air's 'Solidissimo', and its a definite highlight. 
Elsewhere, Mino Pour Main Basse's 'Le Patron Est Devenu Foul' is a great 90s equivalent of 'Trans Europe Express', which chugs away, blindly following but desperate to leave the tracks. And Alex Gopher's 'Super Disco' boogies on down with a tail end Grandmaster Flash sample. The vibe floats on throughout the compilation — not so much your chunky big beat dancefloor fillers, but more your toe tapping, espresso sipping, afternoon picker-upperers. 
Artist: KAREN HUNTER 
Album: The Private Life of Clowns
Record Label: Raw Fish Salad
Reviewed By: BRONWYN TRUDGEON 
There are so many interesting things about Karen Hunter's debut album, that it seems a shame things kick off on the one track where 'interesting' translates to 'irritating.' While I'm sure 'Go' is the. "live favourite" it's professed to be, I find its jerky rhythms and scat vocals a difficult bump to be negotiated early on in an otherwise perfectly smooth journey. Don't let it derail you, as I'm sure it would have me if I'd not been duty bound to continue. Anyway, I'm glad I moved on, and not only for the fact that I've woken every morning for some time now with the lovely 'Friends'. But things aren't so soothing elsewhere, with guitars which positively grunt — a grand trademark of Hunter's darker works. The title track is a good case in point, and it's not the only song the album where favourable comparisons can be drawn with the band of its coproducer, Formica's Eamon O'Kane. Further on, Leraine Horstmanshoff, who was in the duo Spinning Wheel with Hunter in the early 90s, brings more spunk than most to the two tracks she plays . bamboo saxophone on, 'Perfection/Washing' and 'Living and Breathing'.
Songs like 'Angelfish', 'Sparkle' and 'River', all encompass aquatic imagery, and closing on the latter's watery samples makes The Private Life of Clowns seem to have been a journey by sail boat.
Karen Hunter is charting a course all of her own, and now that booking passage from the comfort of your own home is an option, you'd be a fool not to get wise to that which her legions have been witnessing live for the past 15 years. 
Artist: SIMPLE MINDS 
Album: Neapolis
Record Label: Chrysalis
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
It's only a year away from the 20th anniversary of Simple Minds' debut album, Life in a Day, and as if to commemorate their origins, original bassist Derek Forbes and drummer, Mel Gaynor, and New Gold Dream producer, Pete Walsh, have joined Kerr and Burchill at the gates of their castles in time for the new album.
There's some slight changes in direction, and okay, Jim still mistakes emotional overstatement and sentimental sloganeering for profound poetry and reality, but there's signs here that they could still be relevant in the contemporary arena with a little more assimilation of the modern world and its fractured beats. Some recognition of this is in the overall low-key, more ambient restraints of the songs, particularly in the beautiful opener, 'Song for the Tribes' and in the dosing almost techno pulse of 'Androgyny'. Elsewhere, anachronistic tastefulness and fair tunes are prevalent, and that's not a situation that couldn't be remedied with an earring through the tongue, a touch of peroxide, and a song called 'Mindstarter'. 
Simple Minds in the millennium? There could be worse fates. 
Artist: CURVE 
Album: Come Clean
Record Label: Universal
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
Just how many years has it been since Doppelganger! Back then, Toni Halliday and Dean Garcia married industrial rhythms to a genuinely creepy gothic chill which ran a knife-slash through the dribbling, junkie-on-the-nod repetitive shambles of the shitegazer movement, ushering in a vibrant period of true rock/dance/indie crossover (acknowledged when Leftfield featured Halliday on 1995's 'Original']. Curve ain't so revolutionary now in this post-electronica world, where the cutting edge has integrated into mainstream pop. And they ain't so sinister either; Come Clean never strays too far from the territory Garbage now occupy. 
Produced by Tim (Bomb The Bass) Simenon, 'real' instruments are recorded, thrown into the programming blender, treated, sequenced, and turned out as distant cousins of NIN — the first single 'Chinese Burn', and 'Dog Bone', also rage with the White Zombie machines. But it's Halliday sharpening her vocal claws amidst the electronic swells and fades that really looses the beast. Sparkling tunes and hooks populate: 'Beyond Reach' and 'Something Familiar', and the multicycled 'Coming Up Roses', with Halliday utilising a new (for her) vocal approach, is incredibly good. 
It's not the Curve of old, but Come Clean is a smart pop record that shows they haven't thrown in their hand yet. 
Artist: ARCHIE ROACH 
Album: Looking For Butter Boy
Record Label: Aurora
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING 
Many will recall Archie Roach's solo tour with fellow Australian Paul Kelly some years back. Roach's raspy baritone bespoke the often troubled life of an urban Aboriginal. His debut album, Charcoal Lane, introduced a raw, impressive talent — much along the lines of Ted Hawkins in America — a songwriter/songwriter who had little need to resort to fiction and whose live performances were often remarkably candid.
Butter Boy is again musical autobiography. The opener 'Beggar Man' revisits Roach's experience as an alcoholic itinerant adrift among city streets (thankfully with some humour), while 'My Grandmother' and 'Mother's Heartbeat' explore simply the joys of family — songs given added poignancy when one recalls the Australian Government's inhuman treatment of Aboriginal children (the 'stolen children' of which Roach was one). 
Produced by the Neville Brother's producer (and Daniel Lanois protege) Malcolm Burn, on Butter Boy things are kept fittingly simple. Highlights include the aforementioned sprightly 'Beggar Man', a loping 'Hold On Tight', and some touching balladry on 'Reach For You'. Elsewhere, Burn gets away with a thrashy Neil Young rock treatment on 'Give Unto Caeser', but only just. At times Butter Boy risks losing the listener, so similar and soporific are the tempos and one would've liked to hear more of the pop charms of 'Beggar Man', and rather less balladry — Roach's natural strong suit.
A bright future then for this particular 'butter boy', although how long Roach can keep sifting through his past with the same effect remains to be seen. In the meantime, enjoy.
Artist: SWERVEDRIVER 
Album: 99th Dream 
Record Label: Cortex
Reviewed By: MARTIN BELL 
There was a time when the shoegazing class of the early 90s British music scene (typified by the likes of My Bloody Valentine, Ride, Lush and Swervedriver) ruled the musical roost. Then the shoegazers got double-teamed by the twin explosions of grunge and Britpop, and Swervedriver went from being a band who could've been contenders, to a band that couldn't get a record deal. Industry wrangling has left their fourth album, 99th Dream, in limbo for the best part of a year — the album finally finding local release through a licensing deal with Australian label Shock.
The opening song (and title track) recalls the wide-screen majesty of Straitjacket Fits or Bike — indeed ‘99th Dream’ may well be the best song that Andrew Brough never wrote. But if expectations are high after such a standout opening, a realisation slowly begins to dawn as the album progresses. Swervedriver have become an anachronism — the band that time forgot. While they haven't stayed stuck in their shoegazing rut, adding psychedelic guitar wigouts and classic pop melodicism to their sound, neither have they evolved to the point where they sound relevant and fresh (for an object lesson in pulling off this manoeuvre, see the career of early 90s peers the Verve). To say that Swervedriver have missed the boat is perhaps unnecessarily cruel, for 99th Dream is essentially solid, well crafted and likeable. But by album's end, one is left with the image of the band standing on the dock, waving goodbye, while the tide of recent musical history rises inexorably around them.
Artist: MORCHEEBA 
Album: Big Calm
Record Label: China
Reviewed By: JOHN TAITE
'I am the new... for reasons I can't explain,' sang Skye Edward when the cracking single 'Shoulderholster' kicked off last year. And by the end of this year, Morcheeba are guaranteed to be bandied about as the newest and coolest discoveries of 98. Their last album, Who Can You Trust, put them on the musical map, but it's the depth, splendour and accessibility of Big Calm that will break them to the masses. Think of a rich, soulful love of guitars, sitars, percussion and rhythms, then add some seriously catchy tunes and beats. Funk, reggae, trip hop, soul, ska, all of these get the Morcheeba assimilated treatment. And they sound so varied and all powerful in their sonic treatments, you can't help but fall for what they've created here. The latest single, 'The Sea', is a better indicator than the pop heavy 'Shoulderholster' of what you're in for here, but there are some far more glorious highlights waiting to be released in the form of 'Let Me See', and the string section saturated, 'Fear and Love'. 
Edward herself possesses some of the softest, butteriest vocals in the world, and she warms you like a fine bourbon, gracefully floating ' across the instrumental beat beds like some proverbial smoke on the bong water. Brothers Ross and Paul Godfrey make up the other two thirds of the outfit. One is a hip hop junkie whose love of weed ensures the beats never rise higher than the groove demands, and the other a 1930 s blues fan who arranges some of the most soulful slide guitar this side of Ben Harper. 
Big Calm is an amazingly good album that will surprise you with its textured, rounded, accomplished sound. It's a record you'll be dying to tell everyone about — so get in quick before they tell you first! 
Artist: SHORT 
Album: Are You Going To Eat That? 
Record Label: Beats Bodega
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Wellington can be a culturally void place so why not start a band? Short began as couch locked drone and are apparently about to return to that state when their drummer leaves, so here's their second release to remember them by. Are You? is laden with earnest, low key guitar pop, strong on melody but short on content, both in song length and dynamism. While not necessarily a bad thing, it does lead the 11 tracks to border on the lowlands for the most part. The post pump blast of 'SFP 15' heats things up a degree, but for the diluted Jesus Lizard (Sabbath) riffs spread thinly through the Pumpkinhead/Ned's Atomic Dustbin riffery, with Jordan Luck-sounding mournful vocals, is really nothing more than a sketch book that won't be finished. Love to hear the drone though! 
Artist: SKELETON KEY 
Album: Fantastic Spikes Through Balloon 
Record Label: Mushroom
Reviewed By: TROY FERGUSON 
Eccentric New Yorkers Skeleton Key include ex-Lounge Lizards Erik Sanko amongst their number, so it's a safe bet that there'll be a little avant-gardism at work here. Sure enough, Fantastic Spikes... is a rock album made by oddballs; miscellaneous percussive devices complementing the conventional drumkit include 'broken-down farm machinery', that instills an offbeat lumbering grace in the showy rhythm section — but that's pretty much where the strangeness ends on paper. Joining Skeleton Key in wading through their various skewed reference points is another matter altogether. 'Nod Off' would fit into Frank's Wild Years, with its devilish merry-go-waltz, and the heavyhanded falsetto funk of 'All The Things I've Lost' is a sort-of Sly Stallone and the Family Stoned. Musical schizophrenia abounds; 'Vomit Ascot' is a minute and a half of thrash; while 'Watch the Fat Man Swing' simultaneously builds on fusion jazz structures and Primus, whose individual soloing tendencies Skeleton Key suffer from wholesale. 
It's strange that this album succeeds, but like the "found" percussion, there's alternate uses for secondhand cast-off pieces that offers whole new ways of looking at them. 
Artist: ACETONE 
Album: Acetone 
Record Label: Vapor
Artist: JEN TRYNIN 
Album: Gun Shy Trigger Happy
Record Label: Liberation
Artist: MARCY PLAYGROUND 
Album: Marcy Playground
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: GEORGE KAY
Reviewed By: A bunch of miscellaneous American oddities has to start with the oddest and that means Acetone, an LA trio who've re-invented themselves on this third album, to join the swelling ranks of the lo-fi. Revered by the Verve and Spiritualized'; Jason Pierce, Acetone seem determined to contradict their band name (acetone is a volatile liquid) with this collection of slumbering rhythms, low key, off-kilter countryish guitar motifs and muted vocals. It has cult status whispered all over it, and even though the 'songs' are hard to dislike, they're even harder to remember. 
From a more animated dimension comes Jen Trynin, from that seemingly bottomless pit of American female singer/songwriters committed to the worthiness of orthodox rock 'n' roll. Given the seal of approval by the Rolling Stone means that she has all the right antecedents and on this, her second album, she occasionally manages to sound like Annie Lennox as she burns through rockers like the undeniably fine 'Go Ahead', ballads like 'Writing Notes', and mild experiments in the shape of 'Under the Knife'. Competent integrity at work here.
Meanwhile, Marcy Playground's John Wozniak takes integrity a bit too far. His band is named after a Minneapolis hippie school, where in the late 70s he discovered himself while hiding in a classroom to avoid the playground's bullies. A formative experience and a metaphor for life, Marcy Playground is Wozniak's. post-grunge preciousness wrapped up in crunchy guitars, acoustic 'meaningfulness' and awful lyrics. He needs to toughen up. 
Artist: GRINSPOON 
Album: Guide To Better Living 
Record Label: Grudge
Reviewed By: GAVIN BERTRAM 
Aussie four piece Grinspoon chug out a sound that roughly approximates Helmet's gargantuan riff 'n' roll. Nothing terribly exciting, but not vomit-inducing either. Occasional dalliances with more melody like 'Just Ace' and 'Don't Go Away' add variety to a sometimes ponderous album. The big, noisy, groovebound numbers are a tad hit and miss, but when Grinspoon lock into a decent riff, like 'Repeat, Railrider' or 'Pressure Tested 1984', they do some serious hearing damage. One of a number of accomplished heavier Australian acts who appeared in the mid 90s, Grinspoon are a staple of the Homebake and Big Day Out events, and their expansive groove rock is perfect festival fodder, big enough to fill a large stadium. Better Living? Why not. 
Artist: JJ CALE 
Album: The Very Best Of 
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING 
There's nothing flashy about JJ, after around a dozen albums the formula has remained the same — rootsy, bluestinged songs sung in his signature laidback drawl. 
After interviewing him a couple of years back, I can attest that his charm doesn't confine itself to musical matter. Cale's kind of musical hybrid has become a much imitated recipe (stand up Mark Knopfler). Despite enjoying a healthy living from Clapton and other's royalties via their recordings of his songs — to these ears anyway — it is Cale who sounds best doing Cale. Tracks like 'Cajun Moon', 'Call me the Breeze', 'Magnolia' and 'Sensitive Kind' are the kind of unassuming minor-masterworks that have distinguished the Okalahoma artist's career.
One could quibble with the tracklisting — no 'Don't Go To Strangers', 'Drifter's Wife' etc — but then there's nothing here that doesn't deserve a place. 
On the evidence of this and the recently released double album anthology Anyway the Wind Blows, Cale is finally getting the respect and attention he deserves — whether he wants it or not.
Artist: THE HANGOVERS 
Album: Slow Dirty Tears
Record Label: Smoke
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE
There's so much to say. Produced by lan McKaye, and supported by Simon Fisher Turner (soundtrack to Derek Jarman's Blue) and Riot Grrrl/Voodoo Queen Mary Deigan, this is an album of extraordinary contrast, between those playing on it and the sounds and styles within, none of which clang like a bolt down your toilet bowl.
Ex-Raincoat Gina Birch possesses one of the most dynamic voices in 'alternative' music, both breathy and growling; she could be the result of a fruitful relationship between seasoned Marianne Faithful and Eartha Kitt, and the prose spouted here fits the fantasy parents' worldliness, as displayed on 'Hollow Moon' ('Darkness overwhelms me like it never has before / Crying won't solve it').
Musically, the guitars scratch and jangle in the post punk way, and are augmented by the aforementioned Turner and the samples of wunderling Ida Akesson, which echo the Stereolab pedigree and groove of drummer Joe Dilworth. But combine all these and other personalities and the sum does not equal the influences, including dance ('Sweetest Pain') dub ('Sitting on top of the World'), and NYC 1977 angst blasts ('Sorry'). After a few listens there's still more to uncover and nary a blank in sight, Slow Dirty Tears is a great laxative for a backed up brain. 
Artist: ROBBIE ROBERTSON 
Album: Contact From The Underworld Of Redboy 
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
Once the creative force behind the Band, Robbie Robertson now has more in common with artists like Peter Gabriel, Sting and Eno — manipulators of sound, aging millionaires and not so coincidentally, lily-bellied liberals. If we've become accustomed to the politically correct stance of someone like Gabriel, Robertson's relatively recent discovery of his Indian roots is virgin territory and a little too musically convenient. As with his last album, Redboy finds its centre around the spirit, and struggle of the Native Indian people. Jailed leader Leonard Peltier is featured and a percentage of money from the record goes to his defence fund. 
If one accepts Robertson's concern as true (and only a diehard cynic would think otherwise) Redboy's true centre might be Robertson's confused and somewhat guilty presence as rock star on the reservation. Certainly there is much here to celebrate — material like 'The Sound is Fading', 'Unbound', and 'ln the Blood', sound as though Robertson is intimately involved, and there is little of the bloated, self indulgence of his first two solo albums. That said, Robertson's gruff, one-note vocal remains a problem, and too often the tracks are bled dry, victims of the kind of over-production elderly rock legends seem to claim as if by right. This, coupled with an obsessive desire to seem hip, often trips up Robertson. 
In an attempt to cover all bases included at the end of Redboy is his surprise gay dancefloor hit, Take Your Partner by the Hand'. If his position as cultural attache comes a cropper, Robbie may yet assume his place as homosexual pin up, red blood and all! 
Artist: MICHAEL J HEX 
Album: The Hiss Explosion
Record Label: Noseflute
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Those nice folk at Noseflute keep sending up oddball guitar experimentation that no one else in the office will touch. But that's okay, it's kinda like a Jack Sprat relationship; their scraps, my feast. 
The Hiss Explosion is not quite as good as last year's Johnny Horse, and is certainly leaner in the number of tracks, but there's still at least a half dozen goodies spread through mostly the first half to whet the guitar noodling tastebuds. From the opening pop ditty, 'The Big Game', with its dollops of commentary (Otago v ???), to the primal 'Tribal Hiss Odyssey', complete with rotten drums, offal guitar noise and droning organ, or 'Losing' with Clean Oddities scratched under its hairline, The Hiss Explosion lives up to its lively four track origins. Occasionally bordering on indulgent (well, quite often actually), the gems like 'Looking on the Inside', where you swim aurally down guitar string streams through casio forests, make the dip well worth your while. 
Artist: VARIOUS 
Album: Diversion: A Slow River Compilation 
Record Label: Slow River
Reviewed By: BRONWYNTRUDGEON 
Here's a special delivery from Salem, Massachusetts, only available downunder thanks to the beautiful relationship between the White and Slow River labels, who first brought us Sparklehorse (an early version of SH's 'Heart of Darkness' is included here, alongside 'How Can I Face Tomorrow', a stand-out cut from Mark Linkous' side project, A Loose Confederation of Saturday City States). It's an eclectic mix ranging from the bizarre (Disque 9's 'The Gift Lost. The Death & the Ascension') to the beautiful (Lauren Hoffman's 'Fall Away'), with liberal doses of cow-poke punk — probably due to the fact label boss George Howard (ex-Lotus Eaters and featured here on Lincoln 65's 'Water/Wine') spent significant parts of his teen years playing in hardcore bands and wearing a Walkman in the car while his father played country music. That said, there's nothing confusing about any of the songwriting here (things start as the mean to continue with Charlie Chesterman's lyrically brilliant 'Mr Blue'), and there's no mistaking the emotions ripping through the surface of Grace Braun's 'Do Right'. 
With 14 tracks by 13 bands, I'll settle for saying don't overlook this. Although at a glance you may find little to twig your familiar interests, surprises abound (like Ed's Redeeming Qualities' original version of 'Driving on 9', which the Breeders made big on Last Splash) and you're sure to fall for a fair whack of these relatively quiet little bands in a big and noisy way. 
Artist: THE LUCKSMITHS 
Album: A Good Kind Of Nervous
Record Label: Candle
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING 
Australian trio the Lucksmiths reek of DIY sensibilities, right down to the bright orange cover, handwritten catalogue, and cute etching of the aerials and rooftops of (I think) Melbourne. Think Cowboy Junkies or Scud Mountain Boys, and the Lucksmiths as a local, somewhat cosier equivalent. 
By now you may be aware of 'Caravana', the somewhat wonderful first single. Who can resist lyrics like, 'Take the tennis ball off the towbar / We've come a long way,' when accompanied by such a sweet, road weary melody. Sadly, the remainder of Nervous fails to meet the opener's high standards. 'Under the Rotunda' and ‘Train Robber's Wives’ sound like bad Billy Bragg, while other tunes are laboured by lyrical stupidity and an annoying undergraduate smugness. 
A weedy, thin production courtesy of themselves doesn't help things, and one senses that much of their spontaneity and verve have failed to translate in the studio. Everything's a little flat. 
Fans of suburban bedsit singalongs may well find in Nervous more than I did, and I bet it couldn't happen to a nicer bunch of people. 
Artist: HANGAR 18 
Album: Grey Area 
Record Label: Area 51
Reviewed By: FRANKO GRACIAS 
The aliens have landed, except this time they're from the Waitakeres and not Mars. Hangar 18 have chalked up an impressive CV by all accounts, gigs in Hong Kong and Manila, support slots with Silverchair and No Doubt, and sponsorship deals with Cathay Pacific, Ibanez, Peavy, Tama etc. But what about the music you say? 
Grey Area starts off all spooky with some alien type samples going down, and then rips into... well, something not unlike New Zealand 80s rockers Knightshade, and then continues down this path. Songs like 'H-18' and 'Wrong Call' start out with that classic, clean, chorused guitar sound, before building up into a 'rock out' that doesn't particularly rock out at all. Fans of this album will be people who still like bands with big hair and Olympic style lead breaks.
Hangar 18 are doing what they enjoy and doing it well. And they would be the first to admit that not everyone wants to play (or listen to) music that is currently considered 'hip' or 'cool.' 
Artist: BUCK-O-NINE 
Album: Twenty-Eight Teeth 
Record Label: TVT
Reviewed By: MAC HODGE 
Twenty-Eight Teeth — 14 tracks ending with 'Little Pain Inside', which incidentally is. fairly descriptive of the jewel case as I was lucky to escape with only temporary scarring from San Diego's latest ska/punk, Train in Vain-Clash impersonators. 
'What Happened to My Radio' is fairly indicative of their lack of (realising their own) irony or originality when they sing, 'I get so confused it all sounds the same.' Bloody amazing. 
That guy on all the Real TV shows who drove the tank over parked cars, Taco Bell, and amateur camera types, did so in San Diego. He should have been firing shells into music stores and done the world a big favour. Just no rhyme or reason with these Ameripsycho types unfortunately. 
Artist: CHRIS STILLS 
Album: 100 Year Thing
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: GREG FLEMING
It seems they still breed singer/songwriters like sandflies West Coast ways. The trouble with Chris is, he doesn't quite know whether he's Robert Plant or Tim Buckley, Chris Cornell or Ben Harper. As debut albums go, 100 Year Thing isn't bad — rootsy when it needs to be, tuneful, sometimes winningly tender — and coupled with his pin-up looks, Stills may yet replace Jeff Buckley in the thinking gals centrefold stakes. Musically, Stills is a switch-hitter — rocker one minute, troubadour the next, but alas, as yet the two don't quite mesh. The best tunes here, 'Last Stop', 'Trouble', the Led Zep stroll of 'Tears Of Envy', reveals a talent testing its perimeters. 
Of course, the fact that his family just happened to be that Stills, may explain a few things — but as Jakob and Jeff have proven — there's little to be gained ferreting round the family tree. 
For now, Stills does make it onto the 'to watch' list, as 100 Year Thing suggests that the songs he will sing shall outstrip those he's peddling at present, provided that is, that the LA sun and fun don't get to him first. 