Album: Bridges to Babylon
Artist: The Rolling Stones.
Reviewed By: Mark Kemp
ON THEIR LAST TWO ALbums, the Rolling Stones proved that they still had verve and stamina, and that they could re-create the sounds of their glorious past. But were we satisfied with those records simply because we expect less of the Stones these days? Steel Wheels, from 1989, was at least a welcome reprieve from the group's floundering early '80s years; 1994's Voodoo Lounge was simply a "greatest hits" collection, with the actual hits replaced by new songs that tried to conjure the spirit (if not the substance) of classics like "Lady Jane." It's tempting to want the world's greatest rock & roll band to still be good; it's another thing when the Stones actually deliver the goods.
Enter Bridges to Babylon. Thirty-four years after the Stones released their first single, a kick-ass cover of Chuck Berry's "Come On," Mick, Keith and the boys show that they are still at their best when they're mining American blues, soul and R&B, and giving those styles a new twist. Bridges finds the fiftysomething Stones bitching, moaning, boasting, grieving - and still yearning, with a wink and nod to political incorrectness, for hot, steamy sex. (Hey, so is John Lee Hooker. So why dis these wealthy white guys for wanting the same?)
With production credits divvied up among Voodoo Lounge helpmate Don Was, and newcomers the Dust Brothers (Beck, the Beastie Boys) and Danny Saber (Black Grape), Bridges rocks out of the gate with the ballsy classic-Stones riffing of "Flip the Switch," wherein Jagger suggests that he needs turning on. "Three black eyes and a busted nose," he sings. "Pick me up, baby, I'm ready to go." From there, he swaggers from alleycat whispers in "Anybody Seen My Baby" and "Out of Control" to soulful crooning in the self-pitying "Already Over Me" to cock-rock confidence in the fickle "Too Tight." Richards checks in with some of the stronger songs: the reggaefied "You Don't Have to Mean It" and the soulful "Thief in the Night." The album's powerful finale, "How Can I Stop," is a gruff, tear-stained Richards tune that seems to be vying for a position among the pantheon of Stones ballads like "Memory Motel."
Although Bridges has its quota of hard rockers, much of the material here - like that of the Stones' underappreciated 1976 album Black and Blue - is slow-paced, with pensive lyrics that explore themes of betrayal and domestic upheaval. In the desperate "Anybody Seen My Baby,"Jagger asks, "Has she disappeared? Has she really gone for good?" Then there's the pleading of "Low Down" ("I just want to know where I stand"), the emotional insecurity of "Already Over Me" ("I'm so hurt, so confused/I've been burned; I've been bruised") and the brute anger of "Gunface" ("I taught her all she knows; I taught her how to lie/I taught her everything; I'm gonna teach her how to cry").
Along with the pangs of jilted love, the decadent Jagger of old appears, straddling the line between heaven and hell in "Saint of Me." Over a warm gospel melody and a cool Dust Brothers drum loop, he sings, "I do believe in miracles, and I do want to save my soul," yet concludes, "You'll never make a saint of me." In the Beck-meets-Robert Johnson blues of "Might As Well Get Juiced" (which might as well be aimed at Richards), Jagger gets bitingly sarcastic: "If you really wanna tear up your mind . . . you might as well get juiced."
The Stones can thank the Dust Brothers for giving Bridges its welcome surprises. Toward the end of "Anybody Seen My Baby," they throw in a sample of rapper Biz Markie. It's an insane juxtaposition of old-school hip-hop and new-school production values set against a classic midtempo Stones ballad - and it's just as effective as it is absurd. The Brothers' buzzing electronic effects in "Juiced" provide a nice cushion of sound for Jagger's ragged vocals and moaning harmonica, and Ronnie Wood's raw slide guitar; aside from that touch, the song's fuzzy, gritty sound harks back to the Stones' stripped-down-blues excursions on Exile on Main St. ("Ventilator Blues") and Sticky Fingers ("You Gotta Move"). The Dust Brothers' sensibility extends to other songs, too, such as "Gunface," produced live in the studio by Saber, in which Charlie Watts' legendary rock-solid beat sounds like it was electronically looped.
Not everything comes off so seamlessly. Jagger gets maudlin on the acoustic ballad "Always Suffering," and on "Too Tight," Richards resorts to pedestrian bar-band licks. But two out of 13 ain't bad. Most of Bridges' songs come off feral without sounding forced, contemporary without succumbing to modern rock trendiness. It's the Stones we loved back in the day, the Stones who made albums that were neither too self-consciously up-to-date nor too giddily nostalgic. Now we can really be satisfied.
Album: Time Out of Mind
Artist: Bob Dylan.
Reviewed By: Greg Kot
THERE IS A MOMENT NEAR the end of Bob Dylan's 41st album, Time Out of Mind, when the Dylan of 35 years ago reappears. You know, the skinny kid with the hurricane hair and the inscrutable smirk who blasted business as usual in the teeth? That guy.
As the 16-minute-long "Highlands" detours from its verse-chorus-verse path to an extended narrative bridge, the deadpan twang in Dylan's voice becomes more pronounced, and his old sly glee can be glimpsed. The voice - conversational, playful, sensual - snakes over a shimmering blues-guitar riff and the chords of a distant Farfisa organ as it recounts a conversation at a restaurant with a woman, a knockout "with a pretty face and long, white, shiny legs." The narrator and his female companion spar verbally, a comical exchange of clashing values and cryptic, coded messages. Desire cools as the singer realizes that he is in the wrong place at the wrong time with the wrong woman. He eases out of the joint and conveys the delight of a convict who has just tunneled out into the daylight: "I'm crossing the street to get away from a mangy dog/Talkin' to myself in a monologue/I think what I need might be a full-length leather coat/Somebody just asked me if I registered to vote."
Then the swagger is gone, and Dylan once again wears his 56 years as he rasps, "There's less and less to say . . . I got new eyes/Everything looks far away."
Time Out of Mind is thick with faraway ghosts. Although the deluge of breakup songs on the album might suggest that it is a long-lost sequel to Dylan's famed "divorce album" of 1975, Blood on the Tracks, the singer's world-weary delivery hints at a broader intent. When he recorded Blood on the Tracks, Dylan was just entering middle age and was still a major figure in pop culture as he made a conscious return to the spare, folk-oriented intensity of his early albums. Twenty-two years down the road, Time Out of Mind finds Dylan on the culture's fringe, confronting his advancing years and the prospects of failing health (he was hospitalized a few months ago for a heart ailment) and irrelevance.
Time's perspective is that of an outsider speaking to an absent confidant, a distant lover, a long-departed audience. He sings about love gone awry, but until the surreal conversation that occurs in "Highlands," that loss never acquires a human face. It's a memory, a dream, a specter, as if Dylan were singing not about a companion but about something far less tangible. He projects the unease of someone adrift in a world that he ceases to understand and that has ceased to understand him.
In this sense, Time Out of Mind is a more fully realized version of Oh Mercy, the 1989 album that Dylan recorded with producer Daniel Lanois. The new album not only reunites Dylan with Lanois, it also expands on the tone set by such Oh Mercy songs as "Everything Is Broken" and "Man in the Long Black Coat," in which Dylan sings, "People don't live or die; people just float."
As it turns out, Dylan was just getting warmed up. On Time Out of Mind, he paints a self-portrait with words and sound that pivots around a single line from the album's penultimate song, "Can't Wait": "That's how it is when things disintegrate."
Lanois, whose heavily atmospheric productions have brought an almost disembodied eeriness to albums by U2, Peter Gabriel and Emmylou Harris, among others, applies a more restrained touch here. The instruments are aligned in the mix with a 3-D depth, and the settings veer from the echo-drenched Sun Records thump of "Dirt Road Blues" to the jazz-organ combo at closing time that is evoked on "Million Miles." Dylan contemporaries such as pianist Jim Dickinson and organist Augie Myers, as well as blues guitarist Duke Robillard, build hypnotic, steady-rolling grooves that suggest a spooky David Lynch soundtrack. The empathetic, low-key support flatters Dylan's increasingly pinched voice to far greater effect than he has received on many of his recordings of the last 15 years.
Mortality bears down hard. "It's not dark yet, but it's gettin' there," Dylan declares in "Not Dark Yet." Shots of gallows humor ring out: "I know plenty of people put me up for a day or two," he sings on "Million Miles," as if affirming that he still has contact with the human race. Only "Make You Feel My Love," a spare ballad undermined by greetingcard lyrics, breaks the album's spell.
Time Out of Mind is Dylan's first studio release since the solo acoustic bookends Good As I Been to You (1992) and World Gone Wrong (I993), which reinvestigated the songs that fired his passion as a long-ago would-be Woody Guthrie. Now, Dylan has made a coherent, sonically striking but equally subdued ensemble album that sorts through the mess of the more recent past. Save for the brief reminder midway through "Highlands," the audacity of the young, supremely confident Dylan is long gone. In its place has come a voice that is less instantly arresting but nearly as disconcerting. As Dylan suggests in "Tryin' to Get to Heaven," it's a voice that is confident of only one thing: "When you think you've lost everything, you find out you can lose a little more."
Album: Back in Business
Artist: EPMD
Reviewed By: S.H. FERNANDO JR.
LONG BEFORE THE NOTORIOUS B.I.G., Nas and Wu-Tang Clan made their mark on the world of beats, Erick Sermon and Parrish Smith of EPMD practically defined hip-hop's hardcore aesthetic with a sound and style that swept the charts as well as the streets. Never mind that they hailed from the boondocks on suburban Long Island, N.Y. - before their breakup, in 1993, EPMD personified the real McCoy B-boy, with more braggadocio and swagger than a Melvin Van Peebles flick.
That said, Back in Business, EPMD's first release in five years, leaves the dedicated fan somewhat perplexed. It's not that the beats aren't tight or the rhymes on time. The first single, "The Joint," is a radio-friendly head nodder that's bound to get some play on the party circuit. But that track, like much of the rest of the album, seems to favor the down-tempo, sparse production that has become the status quo in rap. Gone is the Wall of Sound funk that made EPMD famous.
When they're not emulating the latest crop of rappers, Sermon and Smith - who have always been known for sampling their own catalog - rest on their own laurels too much. "Chill" is a '97 remake of their I987 classic "You Gots to Chill," complete with a Zapp/ Roger Troutman "More Bounce to the Ounce" loop, while "Jane," another chapter in EPMD's ongoing saga of a freaky transvestite, recycles the same beat as the original.
"K.I.M.," which features the crew getting busy with guest stars Redman and Keith Murray over an uplifting classical fanfare, represents the only new direction here. Back in Business might appeal to the new rap generation schooled on the pop aesthetic of Sean "Puffy" Combs, but true-blue fans will most likely be scratching their heads, not nodding them.
Album: Dots and Loops
Artist: STEREOLAB
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Barney Hoskyns
PITY THE CEREBRAL TECHNIcians of Stereolab, whose coolly subversive fusion of Muzak and kraut rock has for too long condemned them to the critics'-darling ghetto. Perfect postmodern-pop group though Stereolab may be, I'll wager that they would trade a smidgen of street cred for a moment in the bigger spotlight.
If Dots and Loops doesn't raise Stereolab's profile, it won't be because the album is an unworthy follow-up to last year's feted Emperor Tomato Ketchup. What the band and producer John McEntire began with Ketchup has been beautifully built upon here. The group is moving ever further away from the one-chord drone mesh of its early days and toward the avant-easy listening of its chums in the High Llamas, whose leadman, Sean O'Hagan, contributes keyboard parts and spirited horn and string arrangements to this album.
Hypnotic repetition is still Stereolab's main mode, but Dots and Loops fleshes out its rhythms with a range of infectious hybridizations. "Ticker-tape of the Unconscious" lays trancey vibes and brass over Stevie Wonder funk, while "The Flower Called Nowhere" one of three tracks here produced by German technoids Mouse on Mars weds a John Barry harpsichord riff with a cosmic MOR melody. The four-part, 17-minute "Refractions in the Plastic Pulse" starts like a track from the Llamas' Hawaii - all murky vibes, flat Farfisa pads, bossa-nova guitar and Brian Wilson bass - before revisiting Laetitia Sadier's trustiest Nico-isms and then plunging into a synth passage that seems to hail from Todd Rundgren's 1973 album A Wizard/A True Star. Amazing stuff
It's time that this Marxist Europop collective broke out of cultville. Stereolab's early song title "John Cage Bubblegum" may still serve as neat shorthand for what they do, but on Dots and Loops they do it with enough panache and inventiveness to leave the aforementioned ghetto firmly behind them.
Album: Evolution
Artist: BOYZ II MEN
Record Label: Motown
Reviewed By: Ernest Hardy
THE MONIKER BOYZ II MEN IS A freeze frame of the process of transition, implying both a state of perpetual growth and a kind of fence straddling: one foot snagged on adolescence, the other stepping with certainty into adulthood. The title of the quartet's latest album, Evolution, brushes away that ambiguity, making the claim that the group has finally jumped the fence and landed firmly on the side of manhood. The record advertises growth. What is amazing, then - but not surprising - is how much the men still sound like boys.
Boyz II Men haven't tampered with an iota of their formula: Scan the charts for today's hot R&B producers, snag them, cram the album with sappy, sound-alike ballads and lyrics that read like a printout from some computer program that's stuck on BANAL "Girl, please . . ." () "go away"; (2) "come back"; or (3) "stay." Babyface (who should really consider working in a different tempo or at least learning some new chord progressions) contributes the forced wistfulness of "Girl in the Life Magazine," an acoustic soul track, as well as the syrupy, almost unlistenable "A Song for Mama" ("You will always be the girl in my life"). Sean "Puffy" Combs sparks a semblance of libido on the midtempo grooves "Can't Let Her Go" and "Come On," but the cliches being sung ("The way you move your body looks so fine/Fine, you got me hypnotized/ The way you look into my eyes") douse that flame quickly.
Yes, the Boyz can sing, and they are icons of 'gos R&B, but so what? No matter how much they twist, torture and torment their notes (it doesn't matter which member is singing lead; the vocals have precisely two tones: clenched and tremulous), they can't hide the fact that there's no soul in their soul music.
Album: Fabulosos Calavera
Artist: Los Fabulosos Cadillacs.
Record Label: BMG U.S. Latin
Reviewed By: ED MORALES
FLAUNTING A NECROPHILIAC iconography that would make Jerry Garcia proud and riding the wave of the California ska craze, Los Fabulosos Cadillacs' ith album, Fabulosos Calavera ("fabulous skull"), is a landmark record designed to smash borders. Formed 12 years ago in Argentina to reinvent the rude-boy experience with a Latin lava, the Cadillacs have evolved into a high-octane tropical-rock machine. Their chaotic samba-reggae variations and salsa-punk overtures have propelled hits such as "Matador" and "Mal Bicho" to American movie-soundtrack success. And recent collaborations with Debbie Harry and Fishbone (with whom the Cadillacs covered the '60s schlock classic "What's New Pussycat?") have helped make them rock en espanol's most viable crossover dream.
Spinning together a bizarre collection of eerie tales about Argentine mass murders and dreamlike elegies to dead comrades and lost loves, Fabulosos Calavera's lyrics lurk on the dark side of Buenos Aires. But the album's eclectic dynamism overwhelms its esoteric content - the sledgehammer-of-death metal chords that open "El Carnicero de Giles/Sueno" segue suddenly into a cool-jazz-trio groove; Abraxas-era Santana riffs slam up against hardcore thrash and Herb Alpert horn charts in "El Muerto." The Cadillacs fancy themselves as cowpokes, surfers and political activists: In the Dave Brubeck-retake "Nino Diamante," lead singer Gabriel Fernandez Capello shouts "Indio/Make revolution/Level the barrio/Like a bomb." The band remains true to its roots in a danceable rumba with Ruben Blades, who plays the Latin Neil Young to the Cadillacs' Pearl Jam. For all its exotic trappings, Fabulosos Calavera has enough pure pop juice and smart party music to make anybody listen.
Artist: Portishead
Album: Portishead.
Record Label: Go! Beat
Reviewed By: Elisabeth Vincentelli
PORTISHEAD'S MIX OF '60S soundtrack music, hip-hop beats, dub and detached female vocals became an instant reference point when their first album, Dummy, came out, in 1994. Three years later, with the very first notes of Portishead, the group easily re-establishes its mastery of the genre now known as trip-hop. Instrumentalists Geoff Barrow and Adrian Utley have refined their sound to an instantly identifiable essence: bleeps transmitted from outer space, familiar syncopation and turntable scratches.
When Beth Gibbons starts singing in a pinched, affected voice, we know that success hasn't improved the band's mood. "All Mine" may begin like a hiccuping James Bond theme, but it turns out to be a tale of coolly detached possessiveness: "There's nowhere to hide from me..../All mine, you have to be." In "Only You," the singer is imprisoned in a circle of abject dependence - love is never seen as liberating but as binding, confining. "Half Day Closing" is as chilly as a cold wind blowing on a desolate plain - the instruments sound as if they are miles behind Gibbons' voice, wrapped in a creepy gauze of vinyl hiss.
By the time we reach "Mourning Air," it becomes obvious that the Bristol, England, combo uses the same tricks on every song, and that's when morbid fascination turns into ennui. Paradoxically, the music can simultaneously sound huge (Barrow is an amazing sonic architect) and be tensely coiled onto itself. The entire record is an exercise in barren claustrophobia, as if Portishead had spent the past three years burrowing deeper and deeper into a self-obsessed, self-contained world. At this point, we can only hope - for their sake and for the listeners' - that they come up for air soon.
Album: Talk Show
Album: Declaration of Conformity
Artist: The Wellwater Conspiracy
Record Label: Third Gear
Reviewed By: MATT DIEHL
WHAT'S TO BECOME OF ALTERnative" hard rock in the wake of Soundgarden's demise and Scott Weiland's mercurial, on-off relationship with his band mates in Stone Temple Pilots? Cobbled together from the current debris of those bands Talk Show consists of STP's DeLeo brothers and Eric Kretz, and new singer Dave Coutts, while the Wellwater Conspiracy features Soundgarden drummer Matt Cameron and bassist Ben Shepherd - these new releases provide two significantly different answers to that question.
Talk Show's debut brims with that beefy major-label production sound that we've come to expect from Stone Temple Pilots. The similarities don't end there. Songs like "Ring Twice" chug by on lumbering riffs that are a little too close to those that distinguished early STP hits like "Plush." Coutts' vocals - not including his high-pitched, Lennon-esque whine aren't too distinct from Weiland's, either. Talk Show do differ from STP in their strained embrace of Beatleisms: While STP were never the most original of bands, the "Strawberry Fields" sound effects on "Behind" and the cloying whimsy of "Everybody Loves My Car" simply grate. The album is not a total wash - guitarist Dean DeLeo adds impressive Zeppelin-ish spirals to "Hello Hello," while the effervescent power pop of "Peeling an Orange" favorably recalls the Raspberries. Still, Talk Show aren't going to make fans forget Stone Temple Pilots. Then again, what do you expect from a band with the same name as a Go-Go's album?
Cameron and Shepherd take an entirely different tack with the Wellwater Conspiracy and fare much better. Released on a tiny indie label, Declaration of Conformity suggests that these Soundgarden expats have left the Seattle sound behind for trippy psychedelia that recalls such '60s freak icons as Syd Barrett and 13th Floor Elevators. Declaration's tinny, fuzzed-out sonics decidedly evoke the Summer of Love - the ace garage punk of "Lucy Leave" and the hallucinogenic instrumental "Far Side of Your Moon" wouldn't be out of place on the Easy Rider soundtrack. Not to be outdone by Talk Show's cultural references, the Wellwater Conspiracy even title a song "Shel Talmy" in tribute to the legendary producer who was responsible for the Kinks' and the Who's distorted '60s rave-ups. It's this playful toying with rock history that artfully erases from Declaration any memory of Soundgarden's Teutonic glumness. Alternative hard rock may not be dead yet, but Cameron and Shepherd might just be the ones to kill it. (Declaration of Conformity is available from Third Gear Records, PO Box 1886, Royal Oak, MI 48068.)