Artist: Radiohead
Album: OK Computer
Reviewed By: Mark Kemp
THE DAYS OF WHINE AND poses may be over, but don't tell that to Radiohead singer Thom Yorke. He has survived the demise of grunge with all of his anxiety and disillusionment intact. Which hardly means that his group's music hasn't matured. On the contrary, Radiohead are one of the few guitar-based bands of the mid-'90s that has grown by leaps and bounds. When their first single, "Creep," leapt out of MTV's Buzz Bin, in 1993, it came off like a Nirvana wanna-be from hell; the song's obligatory loud/soft dynamics and Yorke's self-deprecating lyrics rang empty. But one listen to Radiohead's third album, OK Computer - a stunning art-rock tour de force - will have you reeling back to their debut, Pablo Honey, for insight into the group's dramatic evolution.
In retrospect, the seeds of a powerful band were there from the beginning. Pablo Honey was a spotty affair, but Yorke's soaring, Bono-esque voice and the instrumental prowess of the band pointed to Radiohead's more ambitious second outing, The Bends. On that record, the music not only complemented Yorke's pretty voice and pensive lyrics but it built on them, sculpting his expressions of inner conflict ("I need to wash myself again to hide all the dirt and pain....") into universal meditations on the kind of primal anguish that we all experience from time to time. The songs were stronger - owing more to the Beatles this time than to U2 - and Radiohead had expanded their palette to include heavy doses of psychedelic guitar, electronics and hints of glam rock.
On OK Computer, Radiohead take the ideas they had begun toying with on The Bends into the stratosphere. At a time when they could have played it safe, selling their psychedelic souls for more radio-friendly rock & roll, Radiohead have released a concept album whose theme - based on rock's age-old fear of the imminence of a world run by computers - unfolds gradually during the course of the album's 12 songs.
OK Computer is not an easy listen. From guitarist Jonny Greenwood's menacing riff that introduces the opener, "Airbag," to Yorke's fragile pleas to "slow down" on the final track, "The Tourist," each song takes time to reveal itself as a narrative link to the album's ultimately spiritual message. In the suite "Paranoid Android," acoustic and electric instruments float understatedly through the mix as Yorke sings, through clenched teeth, lines like "Ambition makes you look very ugly." Complex tempo changes, touches of dissonance, ancient choral music and a King Crimson-like melodic structure propel the song to its conclusion, where Yorke sings in a pleading voice, "God loves his children."
There are moments on "Paranoid Android" when Yorke sounds as though he's conjuring the spirit of Queen's Freddie Mercury. On several other tracks, Radiohead also draw from the past for inspiration. Yorke's throwaway words to "Karma Police" ("This is what you get when you mess with us") are rescued by the layered, "Strawberry Fields Forever" vibe of the music. "Let Down" is driven by Byrds-like chiming guitars. And the Eno-esque ambience of "Fitter Happier" - based around a computerized voice intoning platitudes like "Comfortable/Not drinking too much/Regular exercise at the gym . . ./Calm, fitter, healthier and more productive" - gives the song a claustrophobic, Doll's House feel.
Like R.E.M.'s recent New Adventures in Hi-fi, the music on OK Computer has a surreal, cinematic quality. Also like the R.E.M. record, this album hints at some kind of dark spiritual crossroad. In the delicate "No Surprises," Yorke announces, "This is my final fit, my final bellyache." Where Radiohead might go from here is anyone's guess, but OK Computer is evidence that they are one rock band still willing to look the devil square in the eyes.
Artist: Faith No More
Album: Album of the Year
Record Label: Reprise
Reviewed By: Lorraine Ali
FAITH NO MORE ARE PROBABLY best remembered for their 1989 video hit "Epic," in which a fish out of water flapped around on a shiny Formica surface, gasping and spazzing out until it seemed to die. Well, by the sounds of the band's sixth album, the sacrificial fish has exacted revenge.
On the sadly titled Album of the Year, Faith No More drop the funk out of their formula and rely on what's left: skeletal metal remains and (gulp) keyboard-laced prog rock. The album alternates between dense grinders a la Pantera and noodling, lofty meanderings a la ELP. If that's not repelling enough, the band's lean toward "artistry" over commercialism equals less song structure and fewer connective moments with the listener.
Mike Patton's voice also has changed. He doesn't really do that weird, shaky whine anymore or shout lyrics like a rhythm-deficient rapper. Instead he growls, moans and bellows lyrics that become lost in all the dramatics.
The most interesting spots come during keyboard solos on "Mouth to Mouth" (thanks to Roddy Bottum) and in the beginning of "Helpless," where acoustic guitar and keyboards offer a break from the rest of the album's overcomplicated dirge. But all in all, Faith No More are floundering around desperately, groping for a sense of identity and direction in a decade that clearly finds them irrelevant.
Artist: Primal Scream
Album: Vanishing Point
Record Label: Reprise
Artist: The Charlatans
Album: Tellin’ Stories
Record Label: MCA
Reviewed By: Jason Cohen
Yes, Virginia, there were rock & roll-meets-club culture collisions before the electronica boomlet. Take Primal Scream's 1991 masterpiece, Screamadelica, a soulful, druggy expansion of rock's possibilities -- the Odelay of its time, perhaps, but where Beck digs Bob Dylan and the Beasties, Primal Scream leadman Bobby Gillespie looked to Al Green and the Stones. Those influences dominated Primal Scream's 1994 retro-jammy Give Out but Don't Give Up so much that the album suggested a Brit Black Crowes.
Vanishing Point obliterates that notion, right along with logic, structure and sanity. An abstract, truly psychedelic record, it rages woozily across the cranial dance floor, pinballing between mind fucks, genre hops and drug trips even as it acknowledges tradition with an obligatory Stonesy junk nod ("Medication") and a techno-punk cover of "Motorhead." Violence and revolution dominate "Kowalski," a noisy, urban anthem that is impenetrable on first listen but ends up ultracatchy, thanks to Mani's (ex-Stone Roses) pummeling bass lines and a creepy, whispered chorus of "I'm Kowalski/In Vanishing Point" (referring to the '70s car-chase movie). There's also futuristic dub (the sinister, Tricky-esque "Stuka"), sweet space rock ("Out of the Void") and the tranquil "Star," a civil-rights tribute that sets the Memphis Horns and Augustus Pablo's melodica against Gillespie's fragile croon. The band's Trainspotting theme is here, too, still a perfectly sleepy evocation of dread vs. bliss.
Dance music also shapes the Charlatans UK, an original "Madchester" band that now favors hard, tuneful gutbucket groove rock -- they're the Stones to Oasis' Beatles. Tellin' Stories boasts a trio of rhythm tracks from Chemical Brother Tom Rowlands (payback for singer Tim Burgess' guest vocals on the Chemicals' "Life Is Sweet"). The opener, "With No Shoes," is all hungrily exuberant vocals over whimsical guitar crunch and turntable scratching; both that and the joyous "North Country Boy" stand in poignant contrast to the real-life circumstances of the making of Tellin' Stories: Keyboardist Rob Collins, the band's primary sonic architect, was killed in a car crash during its recording (Primal Scream's Martin Duffy finished Collins' parts). While the noirish, understated "Rob's Theme" serves as the record's coda, Collins' real epitaph is the Ray Manzarek-cum-Jimmy Smith organ grease on "Area 51," another instrumental and the record's trippiest, most clubworthy track.
The Charlatans scramble up industrial hip-hop soul with spirited, melodic '60s-rock influences, but they never let their postmodernism detract from the base simplicity of well-crafted songs and unabashed rockin'. Combine that with the out-there eclecticism of Vanishing Point and you'd have the record U2's Pop wanted to be.
Artist: Lee “Scratch” Perry
Album: Arkology
Reviewed By: David Fricke
WORK YOUR WAY BACK THROUGH EVERYTHING YOU KNOW about hip-hop, electronica, punk rock and post rock, and somehow, some way, you always end up at Black Ark. It was at Black Ark, a four-track studio in the suburbs of Kingston, Jamaica, where, in the mid- and late 1970s, producer, songwriter and indie-label entrepreneur Lee "Scratch" Perry transfigured reggae's loping cadence and R&B heart into something darker, holier and more dangerous - a music of visionary rhythmic textures and biblical-warrior vengeance. Many of the dub, sampling and remix techniques routinely exploited by the Beastie Boys, Wu-Tang Clan and the Chemical Brothers were forged by Perry on the humble, overstressed Black Ark console. And Perry, now in his 60s, was broadcasting the heavy manners of premillennial, black-exile tension on classic Black Ark productions like Max Romeo's "War In a Babylon" and "Police and Thieves," by Junior Murvin, when Tricky was little bigger than a spliff.
Perry's legend is better known than his music: his associations with Bob Marley and the Clash; the stories of Perry at the mixing board, gunned to the eyeballs on weed, rum and Rastafarian creed; his psychological meltdown, which culminated in 1979 with the torching of Black Ark, apparently by Perry himself. Arkology, a 52-song, three-CD survey of Perry's Black Ark output, helps to redress the imbalance. The set does not include Perry's great '60s ska sides, his early instrumentals or his crucial turn-ofthe-' 70s work with Marley and the original Wailers. But Arkol ogy's sequencing of vital Black Ark titles like "War In a Babylon," "Police and Thieves" and the Heptones' sunbathedgospel beauty "Sufferer's Time" with their respective dub versions captures Perry at his most wily, disguising tripped-out socio-religious tracts as irresistible dance music.
In Errol Walker's "In These Times," a rewrite of the Gershwin standard "Summertime," Perry places Walker's lamentations about unemployment and oppressive inflation over a gutted rhythm track in which guitars and keyboards are yanked out from under the singer without warning. At times, Walker seems physically suspended over big, echoey holes of economic disaster and acute personal despair. Perry's gift for whiplash drama and word-sound punning is also evident in the rude cymbal crashes that explode like land mines in "No Peace," by the Meditations. And the extreme compression that Perry applies to the brass in the extended mix of Junior Murvin and Dillinger's "Roots Train" makes the horns sound like a steam whistle on the Jah Railways express.
At Black Ark, Perry definitely operated on the crumbling margins of sanity; his own "Soul Fire" is anguished, hallucinatory dub, the sound of a man driven to terror and incoherence. But for the most part, Perry was crazy like George Clinton, drawing dynamic performances from a fluid cast of singers and sidemen and camouflaging his calls for social change and spiritual retribution in cool licks and cartoonish mysticism. A steely, stabbing guitar adds a Steve Cropper-like touch to Max Romeo's Rasta-superhero hyperbole in "Chase the Devil" ("I'm gonna put on an iron shirt/And chase the devil out of earth"). In "Roast Fish and Corn Bread," Perry's slow, woozy chanting transforms the notion of a simple Rasta lunch into something akin to a sacrament.
The sacred aura and rhythmic might of these recordings make it easy to forget that Perry was trying to cut hits. He made records to be played on booming sound systems at Trenchtown dance parties. That he also made great art, though, was hardly accidental. "This is dub revolution/Music to rock the nation," Perry declares at the beginning of Arkology. Black Ark went up in smoke almost 20 years ago, but the revolution set in motion there is still in progress.
Artist: Wyclef Jean
Album: Wycleaf Jean Presents The Carnival
Record Label: Ruffhouse/Columbia
Reviewed By: Ed Morales
WHEN THE FUGEES LP "THE Score" burst on the scene a year and a half ago, they opened up hiphop's narrowing worldview with infectious musicality and anti-gangsta, positive vibrations. On his new solo effort, The Carnival, guitarist and producer Wyclef Jean - arguably the brains behind The Score - is out to prove that he is "not only a player but a goddamn revolutionary." As the Fugees' recent wildly successful shows in Haiti proved, Wyclef Jean is pushing hip-hop into an international, multicultural milieu by mining his Caribbean roots.
For Wyclef and his native culture, the carnival is a place where "anything can happen." As proof, this LP - featuring "Refugee Allstars" Lauryn Hill, Prakazrel "Pras" Michel, John Forte and Melky Sedeck - offers cinematic moments on the mean streets of Brooklyn ("Year of the Dragon") and slowand-low, Pharcyde-ish booty baiting ("To All the Girls") alongside an appearance by New Orleans veterans Neville Brothers ("Mona Lisa"). The Carnival also dips into the pool of pop history on sure-fire summer jams such as "We Trying to Stay Alive" (think the Bee Gees in da hood) and the Latin standard "Guantanamera" (which could revive salsa queen Celia Cruz's career yet again). The album's islandflavored Creole-lyric tunes, "Jaspora" and "Yele" - both of which have been hits in Haiti - rock with polyrhythmic authority as well.
The Carnival's most stunning moment, though, is "Gunpowder." Wyclef becomes Bob Marley reincarnate, crooning, "We can't stop the violence/ Because the war is not over/Until you can feel love, peace in your silence," with an I-Threes chorus wailing in the background. If that isn't an original hiphop voice, what is?
Artist: The Dandy Warhols
Album: …The Dandy Warhols Come Down
Record Label: Tim/Kerr/Capitol
Reviewed By: Barney Hoskyns
IT'S A SILLY NAME, OF COURSE, one guaranteed to discourage people from taking them seriously. And maybe seriousness isn't the issue anyway. Maybe the point of the Dandy Warhols of Portland, Ore., is simply to inject some genuine psych-punk abandon into the sluggish bloodstream of American rock. Which they do rather well, as it happens.
Following up and surpassing Dandy's Rule OK, their 1995 debut, ... The Dandy Warhols Come Down is the most exhilarating '60s-into-'9os excursion yet attempted by an American band. The Warhols are masters of the hypnotically droning riff delivered in waves of fuzz guitar and garage-band keyboards that recall everything from the Seeds and the Velvets to Stereolab and Spiritualized. This is post-Jesus and Mary Chain pop that abuts the darker territory of psychedelia and kraut rock. Charismatic frontman Courtney Taylor has the '60s down pat, but he never sounds retro-musty. ("Every Day Should Be a Holiday" could be an acidhouse remix of ZZ Top's "Legs," and you can't get much less '60s than that.)
After the chemical-rush kick start of "Be-In" and the adrenalized, Papas Fritas-meet-the-B-52's charge of "Boys Better" and "Minnasoter," . . . The Dandy Warhols Come Down falters somewhat with the morose "Orange" and "I Love You." But it picks up again with the single "Not If You Were the Last Junkie on Earth," a lament for the alt.culture of the Pacific Northwest, and whose prosaic lyrics makes it a uniquely moving anti-heroin song. Four tracks later, "Green" is tinglingly pretty, and "Hard On for Jesus" mates a surging Chocolate Watch Band riff to blissed-out Brit-pop vocals and manic synth squiggles. If this is the Dandy Warhols coming down, the mind boggles at the thought of them flying high.
Artist: David Byrne
Album: Feelings
Reviewed By: Robert Levine
DAVID BYRNE'S NEW ALBUM, Feelings, is impressively eclectic, even by the high standards of an artist who went from playing innovative New Wave to experimenting with found sound to fronting a Latin band in the same decade. Working with collaborators such as Morcheeba, Devo, and DJ and programmer Hahn Rowe, Byrne borrows from drum and bass, Indian music and the kind of Latin rhythms he explored on Rei Momo - sometimes all in the same song.
Feelings is surprisingly coherent, considering its stylistic sprawl. And when it works, it's a marvel of musical collage: "The Gates of Paradise" sets drum-and-bass beats against roots-rock rhythms, "Finite = Alright" mixes quirky Talking Headsstyle New Wave and staccato bursts of violin, and "Dance on Vaseline" punctuates futuristic beats with some funky horns. Even when Byrne doesn't succeed - on the rhythmic ballad "Amnesia," for instance - his failures are intriguing.
Byrne's lyrics also mix disparate sensibilities, conveying the inner feelings hinted at on songs like "My Love Is You," from his previous album, but with the emotional detachment and stamp-collector's attention to detail he displayed on the Talking Heads' opus More Songs About Buildings and Food. On the aforementioned "Finite = Alright," Byrne reassures himself that the world isn't too overwhelming a place by counting out "Three hundred fifty cities in the world/Just 30 teeth inside of our heads." "They Are in Love" reveals that "only love lets me forget who I really am" in a tender but dispassionate tone.
Such lyrical and musical juxtapositions could be a recipe for disaster, but on Feelings, Byrne manages to make them sound catchy rather than convoluted. At a time when his former band mates in Talking Heads are rehashing punk-era glory days, David Byrne has remained as original though hardly the same - as he ever was.
Artist: King Crimson
Album: Epitaph
Reviewed By: David Fricke
THE PROBLEM WITH "ART ROCK" as a descriptive phrase and a body of music is one of emphasis - whether the accent falls on art or rock. King Crimson aspired to both, in equal measure. The mad guitar/sax shriek of "2lst Century Schizoid Man" on the group's 1969 debut album, In the Court of the Crimson King, still sounds as bold and ornery as anything in the early Nine Inch Nails and Metallica catalogs. And the three live readings of "Schizoid" in this two-CD set, all from King Crimson's first year in business, verge on pure dementia. In one take, recorded in December '69 at the Fillmore West, in San Francisco, Ian McDonald's sax goes into a freejazz seizure over the menacing precision of the band's attack.
Epitaph - which features two hours of previously unissued live music with exhaustive documentation by guitarist Robert Fripp, the group's indomitable leader - covers a minute slice of King Crimson's ongoing history: the seven months between the group's BBC Radio debut, in May '69, and the December Fillmore West weekend, when the founding lineup performed its last shows. But the music explains much about how Fripp, McDonald, bassist Greg Lake, drummer Michael Giles and lyricist Peter Sinfield defined progression in rock. The inky abstract stretches of "Mantra" and "Travel Weary Capricorn" anticipate the avant-prog romp of recent underground bands like Tortoise and Jessamine. The early King Crimson were also capable of wonderful grace; "Epitaph" - the song - is a swelling beauty, closer to the elegiac orchestral design of Pet Sounds than trademark Yes or Genesis.
If you have a passing interest in the band or period, In the Court of the Crimson King is all you need. If you crave more, get this box. And start saving: There are two more CDs of '69-gig tapes available by mail order.
Artist: Carl Cox
Album: F.A.C.T 2
Record Label: Moonshine Music
Artist: Junior Vasquez
Album: Junior Vasquez Live (Vol. 1)
Record Label: Pagoda
Reviewed By: Galtney Smith
IF ELECTRONICA HAS ANYTHING in common with hip-hop, it's how its greater influences (i.e., house DJs) are getting pushed aside while moremarketable artists enjoy the potential mainstream spoils. One way that DJs have been able to compete, though, is with "beat mix" compilations - collections of various dance tracks blended together to convey a particular DJ's live club experience. Unfortunately, such mix CDs often are imperfect translations of the DJ's craft - licensing restrictions can place serious limitations on a jock's playlist, and the you-had-to-be-there feeling that haunts most live albums persists.
Two new albums illustrate the point. From a clubland perspective, Junior Vasquez and Carl Cox occupy very different slots: London-born Cox's mixology is strictly underground; Vasquez indulges a poppier, New York sensibility. But both are children of the mid-'8os house explosion, and both DJs specialize in rockin' parties, spinning marathon sets that glide seamlessly through techno to tribal to hiphop to classic house and send dancers into a near-religious fervor.
F.A.C.T2's two CDs work up an aggressive, slow-building tranciness more appropriate for a roomful of sweaty bodies than for private listening. It gets over, though, on a track selection broad enough to include everything from percussive exorcisms like Continuous Cool's "Automatic" to the mush-mouthed lunacy of Green Velvet's "The Stalker."
Junior Vasquez's dramatic knack for ethnic flavoring and bitchy underrhythms is hard to resist on Live, particularly during Angelique Kidjo's "Wombo Lombo" and Vernessa Mitchell's "Reap (What You Sow)." But the album suffers from licensing conflicts; many of the DJ's trademark cuts (including a fierce rework of the Beatles' "Come Together") are replaced by way-inferior Annie Lennox and k.d. lang remixes.
If a DJ's grand purpose is to bring us the music we need to hear in ways we haven't heard, then these records succeed on both counts. But in terms of outof-body experiences, you're gonna have to seek the source.
Artist: Belle and Sebastian
Album: If You're Feeling Sinister
Record Label: The Enclave
Reviewed By: Elisabeth Vincentelli
BELLE AND SEBASTIAN ARE A seven-member ensemble from Glasgow, Scotland, that create elaborate yarns backed by equally elaborate arrangements. If You're Feeling Sinister, their lush, strings-and-pianodriven second album, stands in stark contrast to much contemporary pop for a couple of reasons: Not only is it unabashedly gentle, but the album is completely narrative driven. All the songs have the smooth flow of good storytelling; even the liner notes on band members are literary. One album-sleeve credit reads: "Isobel's thinking of giving up her college. But Isobel, who's going to support us when our dreams crash against the rocks?" We're never told what Isobel does in the group. But what can you expect from a band whose publicity photo pictures an unidentified woman who is not a band member, wearing a surgical mask?
The septet never sounds impressed with its own smarts, but Belle and Sebastian (the name comes from a 1970s French TV show about a boy and his dog) do occasionally get mired in their own sensitivity. On "The Boy Done Wrong Again," singer Stuart Murdoch is at his most plaintive and gets dangerously close to being whiny; it's hard to resist lines such as "All I wanted was to sing the saddest songs/If somebody sings along, I will be happy now," but it's even harder to believe that anything could make Murdoch truly happy at that point. Still, it's tough to find fault with a band that opts for shy resolution over selfpromotion and, in so doing, reaches peaks of effortless pastoral grandeur.
Artist: Motley Crue
Album: Generation Swine
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Jon Wiederhorn
LAST YEAR, '80sMETAL STALwarts Motley Crue announced that they were getting back together with original vocalist Vince Neil, who acrimoniously left the band, in 1992. They claimed that the reunion would lead them in a new direction that would defy expectations and launch them into the next millennium. For the most part, they were wrong.
The band's eighth record, Generation Swine, is loaded with cutting-edge production and grinding industrial effects, but instead of accompanying the noise with vision, Motley Crue still rely on cornball glam-metal techniques that went out with poufy hair and spandex. On "Beauty," a sleazy, drawling vocal, punchy staccato guitars and lurching electronics create the perfect union of ZZ Top celebration and Nine Inch Nails self-immolation, only to be soiled by a fatuous chorus. In "Glitter," intriguing keyboard blips morph into a trite, histrionic vocal charade.
When Motley Crue lay off the fluff, they can still send shivers down the boniest spines. "Find Myself" is a festering pit of warbling guitars and dirtbag lyrics ("I'm a drunk motherfucker/ I'm a smacked-out lover/Ain't no one tougher"), and "Let Us Prey" is an apocalyptic cut laden with menacing metallic crunch and caustic sound effects.
But fans who like to be rocked to pieces crave consistency, and Generation Swine is more schizophrenic than Wesley Willis. Whiny ballads flounder dazedly alongside hardcore beats and woozy melodies, and mean-dude bravado clashes with goopy heart-on-sleeve sentiment. A violin-saturated love song like "Brandon" - which is about drummer Tommy Lee's son and features the ludicrous lyrics "Brandon, I love you; I love her; she is your mom" - may touch Pamela Anderson Lee. But the only tears that Motley Crue fans will shed are ones of loss.
Artist: Rickie Lee Jones
Album: Ghostyhead
Record Label: Reprise
Reviewed By: Greg Kot
ET TU, RICKIE? JUST LIKE MYRiad middle-age guitar strummers and rock groups a little too anxious about staying hip, Rickie Lee Jones has hopped aboard the Trip-Hop Express. On Ghostyhead, verse-chorus songs are replaced by spooky atmospherics, acoustic guitars are entangled in tape loops, and stories are dumped in favor of enigmatic sound snippets.
Jones already has employed some of these nontraditional devices since her 1979 debut, but longtime fans will be hard pressed to recognize her on Ghostyhead. As Jones herself sings on the opening lines of "Road Kill": "What's the matter with it?/Why does it look that way? . . . What's it trying to say?"
Jones sounds desperate to show off her harder edges. She has a song's character score some ecstasy on "Firewalker," turns the protagonist of "Howard" into a young sadist who likes to burn his sister with cigarettes and reveals that the folks in "Little Yellow Town" tear the wings off lightning bugs in search of, er, enlightenment.
In the past, Jones' songs could be pretty shapeless, but Ghostyhead is a mess - at best a well-produced demo full of formless sound collages. John Leftwich's upright bass gives some of it a swanky groove, and Rick Boston's programming is full of pretty decorations, especially the plinks and rattles of percussion on the Eastern-flavored "Cloud of Unknowing."
What's missing is structure, which undoes Jones. Her wayward voice can be intoxicating in the right framework, as when she poured her considerable heart into the neojazz ballads of 1991's Pop Pop. The trip-hop of Ghostyhead, however, lets Jones indulge her boho eccentricities without having to worry about writing any actual songs. Bad idea.
Artist: Blues Traveler
Album: Straight On Till Morning
Record Label: A&M
Reviewed By: Don McLeese
AS AN INVITATION TO MUSIcal adventure, Blues Traveler have never offered better than "Great Big World," the eighth song on the sprawlingly ambitious 13 -cut Straight On Till Morning. While the tune retains the trademark blasts of John Popper's nuclearstrength harmonica, the hardedged riffing of guitarist Chan Kinchla and the rhythmic limberness of drummer Brendan Hill and bassist Bob Sheehan, such highpowered musicianship supports the sort of melodic momentum that'll grab the ears of those more interested in songs than jams. "It's a great big world," promises Popper, "calling you to take a ride."
The rest of Straight On Till Morning delivers, taking the listener on a wild ride all around that great big world of sound. Name aside, the eclectic Blues Traveler have never before sounded as credible a blues band as they do on the swaggering "Carolina Blues" and the brooding, bluesy "Make My Way." The rest of the material is all over the map, from the dance-floor buoyancy of "Felicia" to the disarming restraint of "Canadian Rose" to the power balladry of "Yours."
Like such forebears as Santana and the Allman Brothers Band, this New York foursome remains an improvisational powerhouse onstage, while taking a radio friendlier tack in the studio, emphasizing songs that are more than pegs for extended solos. Though that strategy paid dividends with 1994's multiplatinum Four, that LP was so lightweight that it seemed as if the band had gone from one extreme to the other.
With Straight On, the group restores the balance between aggressive interplay and melodic craft. As usual, some of the blowhard tendencies that endear Popper to fans are likely to make others cringe: his refusal in many of his harmonica solos to leave any space unfilled, his sophomoric philosophizing (see "Battle of Someone"), his penchant for trying to cram twice as many words into a line as can comfortably fit (in the Allman-esque "The Gunfighter").
With Popper's continuing excesses and his defiant unfashionableness, this album won't change the perception of the band as a meat-and-potatoes outfit that emphasizes chops over image. While Straight On Till Morning extends Blues Traveler's musical vistas, they remain a band that jams without restraint. Undoubtedly, their fans wouldn't have it any other way.
Artist: Ween
Album: The Mollusk
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Neva Chonin
WEEN MAY BE WEIRD, BUT they're rarely weird in the same way twice. Since-toddling out of New Hope, Pa., in I99o, armed with a fourtrack recorder, a hardy DIY work ethic and a bizarre debut album called God Ween Satan - the Oneness, this two-man band has traversed an eclectic range of styles and genres. Most recently, it has experimented with funk, sort of (1994's Chocolate and Cheese), and trampled Nashville into the ground (last year's 12 Golden Country Greats).
Ween's sixth album finds faux brothers Gene and Dean Ween (vocalists and guitarists Aaron Freeman and Mickey Melchiondo) turning their talent for mimicry toward a host of musical conceits. Stuffed with an inventive assemblage of analog keyboards, found sounds and brogue-encrusted folk songs, The Mollusk is a satirical (and curiously subtle) pastiche of the current musical landscape. Not even the tongue-in-cheek trippiness that Ween themselves perfected on albums such as 1991's The Pod is spared: "Polka Dot Tail" offers - what else? - a polka tweaked to absurd psychedelic extremes by phase-shifting guitars and woozy, reverberating vocal effects. The album's funniest track, "Mutilated Lips," takes the band's penchant for eccentric lyrics right over the top as rambling, surrealistic verses alternate with choruses of stoned, stream-ofconsciousness babble ("Mutilated lips/Give a kiss/On the wrist/Of the wormlike tips/Of tentacles expanding"). It's groovy enough to give Gibby Haynes a wicked flashback.
In the end, The Mollusk comes off sounding both anachronistic (will these guys ever move beyond their nerdy jester shtick?) and - since genre tripping has become a pop staple cunningly contemporary. If Ween's sense of self-irony survives the electronic music craze, there's likely a wonderfully wack techno album on the horizon.
Artist: Michael Jackson
Album: Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: Nathan Brackett
GIVEN MICHAEL JACKSON'S REcent "image problems" and disappointing record sales, the strategy behind his latest album appears to be sound: Lower expectations and get people dancing. Blood on the Dance Floor: HIStory in the Mix contains five new songs from Jackson as well as eight dance remixes of tracks from his 1995 double disc, HIStory - Past, Present and Future - Book I.
Unfortunately, from the title on down, Blood on the Dance Floor is largely a joyless affair. Jackson's siege mentality hasn't lifted: On the new track "Ghosts," he accuses his critics of jealousy ("Who gave you the right to shake my family tree/Tell me, are you the ghost of jealousy?") over a robotic dance groove. And when the King of Pop really tries to be "dark" here, he ends up being truly disturbing. Every reference to sex on Blood contains some creepy twist, from the double-entendre "Before I put it in, close your eyes and count to 10" on "Morphine," a track about drug addiction, to "Love ain't what it used to be/Push it in, stick it in," which Jackson moans on "Superfly Sister." Most of the album's art depicts Jackson with his mouth frozen open in a scream; it's as if he doesn't know how to emote otherwise anymore.
If nothing else, the remix tracks relieve the listener from the stiff '80sstyle grooves of Blood's new songs. Terry Farley and Pete Heller have fun invoking Jackson's 1979 classic "Don't Stop 'til You Get Enough" on their remix of "Money." Wyclef Jean of the Fugees version of "2 Bad" fills out Blood with some gritty funk. And "Earth Song (Hani's Club Experience)" is a dance-floor-worthy progressive-house excursion.
But there's no escaping Jackson's pained public persona. "It was blood on the dance floor," he sings on the title track, "and I just can't take it." At this point, for the most part, neither can we.