Artist: Prodigy
Album: The Fat of the Land
Record Label: Maverick/Warner Bros
Reviewed By: Barney Hoskyns
RARELY HAS A POP TREND so shamelessly been spoonfed to America as the catchall genre dubbed "electronica." Rarely, indeed, has the music industry tried so hard to convince us that the Next Big Thing is in fact a done deal - that another wave of English boys holds the future in its hands and we'd better get used to it.
Lately, dissenting voices have questioned the wisdom of the electronica hype. America, they argue, will never embrace the underground subculture of techno. Geeky boys with keyboards may find in-crowd success in the country's hipper conurbations, they argue, but will the Chemical Brothers ever rock Cleveland?
Enter the Prodigy, four manic street ravers from the British working-class county of Essex, and their bullishly titled third album, The Fat of the Land. To say that the Prodigy aren't self-effacing synth nerds would be a comical understatement. To suggest that they are the Sex Pistols of techno would not even be such an exaggeration. What the Prodigy have done, quite simply, is to drag techno out of the communal nirvana of the rave and turn it into outlandish punk theater and they've done it brilliantly.
The group's chief weapon is not its menacing cyber-yob frontman, Keith Flint (made famous in the U.S. by the "Firestarter" video), nor its leering rapper, Maxim, but its one-man engine room, Liam Howlett. A loopy genius of the p-Ziq or Aphex Twin variety he's not, but on The Fat of the Land, Howlett has gone boldly where no techno maestro has gone before, easily surpassing the Prodigy's 1994 opus, Music for the Jilted Generation, and fashioning some of the most ferociously exciting music of the year so far.
The point of The Fat of the Land is that it packs all the visceral punch of rock at its incendiary best - not least on the frantic, panic-inducing "Firestarter." There is nothing genial or Kraftwerkish about Howlett's seismic bass grooves or skittering drum programs. Nor is Howlett exactly shy about his rock references. Crunching guitars abound on the album, and a moshworthy cover of L7's "Fuel My Fire" rounds it out. "Climbatize" all but steals the pulsing pre-climax keyboard riff of the Who's "Won't Get Fooled Again," and the savage "Serial Thrilla" (sampling Skunk Anansie's "Selling Jesus") is as rabid as any Rage Against the Machine track. The debt to the Pistols, meanwhile, is only too explicit in the chorus of "Breathe," a thrilling paean to drug psychosis that already has topped the charts in eight countries.
Howlett labored on The Fat of the Land for the better part of two years, and the results speak for themselves. His grasp of rhythm and texture - and of basic song structure - has matured immeasurably from the days when the Prodigy were churning out frenetic rave novelties such as "Charly." Howlett may reject the cerebral world of ambient, but he also has left behind the simplistic, hyperventilated hard-core techno of old. Squelching synths bounce round each other on "Mindfields," creating a mesmerizing funk force field. On "Breathe," everything drops out for eight bars to make way for a mournful, Joy Division-ish guitar riff. Voices from India and North Africa, alternately seductive and sinister, seep into "Narayan" (a collaboration with Kula Shaker's Crispian Mills) and the furious opening track, "Smack My Bitch Up." Only when Howlett opts for more-conventional formulas - the old-school hyper-rave of "Funky Shit" (which includes a Beastie Boys sample) or the pounding hip-hop of "Diesel Power" (featuring formidable Kool Keith, a k a Dr. Octagon) - does The Fat of the Land lose its roller-coaster momentum.
Nevertheless, the Prodigy are greeting the dystopian future with a crazed kind of glee - there is no premillennial tension on this album. Nor do they appear to be very interested in the '60s. Whereas the Chemical Brothers are casting a fan's eye back to the psychedelic past of "Tomorrow Never Knows" and Lothar and the Hand People, the Prodigy are crafting futuristic soundtracks for disfranchised youth - populist electro punk that serves as a perfect Brit counterpart to the industrial noir of Trent Reznor or the jittery soundscapes of Wu-Tang Clan's RZA.
The Fat of the Land is a thrilling, intoxicating nightmare of a record, an energy flash of supernova proportions. "This is dangerous," spits Maxim on "Mindfields." "Open up your head; feel the shell shock!" If America can accept Keith Flint as a psycho-cyberpunk frontman - and accept the rest of the group's in-your-face hooliganism while it's at it - there's no telling how far the Prodigy's marriage of man and machine could take them.
Artist: The Geraldine Fibbers
Album: Butch
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: Jason Fine
GEORGE JONES MANAGES TO PULL off the saddest songs in the world without being corny," Geraldine Fibbers leader Carla Bozulich once said. "That, to me, is a very beautiful thing." Like the king of country, Bozulich has that rare ability to express anguish without sinking into sappiness or self-indulgence. At a time when cartoon superwomen Spice Girls lay claim to girl power, Bozulich is rock's true anti-heroine, snarling her smoky-voiced plaints about addiction, abuse, revenge, schizophrenia and selftorment. She's not just out to face her demons but to slay them.
On Butch, the Fibbers' third and best album, Bozulich sounds like she's having a great time doing it. Joined by a killer quartet featuring avant-jazz guitarist Nels Cline, the Los Angeles band moves beyond the Velvet Underground-accented country of 1995's Lost Somewhere Between the Earth and My Home to create noisy, rumbling clashes of guitar, bass, violin and drums. In songs like "California Tuffy" and "Folks Like Me," 12-string guitar and pedal steel lend an old-time whimsy to Bozulich's harsh confessionals, while punk rockers "I Killed the Cuckoo" and "Seven or in lo" bounce and seethe like twisted noir nursery rhymes.
It's not always easy going. Songs like "Toybox," an ugly, pounding tale of growing up too fast, and the churning "Swim Back to Me" seem to be woven from raw fragments of memory and imagination. But if sometimes the pieces fit together awkwardly, that only adds to the music's jagged grandeur. "You found a pearl in a strange and tangled girl," Bozulich sings on "California Tuffy." Though Butch can be a bitch of a listen, the album is full of such pearls.
Artist: Spiritualized
Album: Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating in Space
Record Label: Dedicated/Arista
Reviewed By: Neva Chonin
WHEN JASON PIERCE LEFT THE legendary trance outfit Spacemen 3, in 199o, the British group's abstract, phase-shifting hum had little place in a musical landscape increasingly dominated by neo-metal-grunge. Still, Pierce's follow-up band, Spiritualized, reaped critical acclaim with the luxuriantly narcoticized noise of 1992's Lazer Guided Melodies and 1995's Pure Phase.
Now that droning ambience is all the rage, Spiritualized - Pierce, keyboardist Kate Radley, bassist Sean Cook, drummer Damon Reece and temporary guitarist John Coxon (of Spring Heel Jack) - have responded with quixotic Spacemen logic and released their most rocking album to date. But make no mistake - though Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating in Space treads heavily on the distortion pedal, it's a far cry from three-chord garage pop.
The album, which took 18 months to mix, is monumental in scope, boasting 58 contributors, who range from Dr. John to the avant-classical Balanescu Quartet to a gospel choir. The album's xs tracks are a study in graceful synthesis: A plaintive harmonica on "Electricity" segues into a squalling guitar on "Home of the Brave"; the luminous harmonies of "Cool Waves" waft into a jazzy piano riff on the 17-minute "Cop Shoot Cop."
For all its elegant arrangements, Ladies and Gentlemen is an opus with a human core. Pierce explores themes of love and addiction with a survivor's hard eye, from the title track's hushed refrain of "All I want in life is a little bit of love to take the pain away" to the resigned euphoria of "A spike in my arm and my spoon," on "I Think I'm in Love." Hardly the stuff of halcyon trances. Both ethereal and earthy, Ladies and Gentleman We Are Floating in Space doesn't try to hide its uglier aspects which, in the end, is what makes it so damn gorgeous.
Artist: 311
Album: Transistor
Record Label: Capricorn
Reviewed By: Chuck Eddy
IF "TRANSISTOR" IS TO BE TRUSTED, the current favorite racial crossover music for droopy-boxer-shorted middle-American paleface teens to tip over cows to is no longer rap but reggae. Yet while California punks Rancid and Sublime embrace Jamaican ska's high-velocity outlaw bounce, platinum-selling Nebraska cornhuskers 311 opt instead for Jamaican dub's sleepy parallel pothead universe.
Identifying ganja music with vague hippie "positivity" and admixing it with psychedelic echo-chamber effects and trip-hop scratch trickery, 311's once congested sound has achieved a newly open sense of space on Transistor. But 311 seem unwilling to make their reggae push, not even in the clumsy, aggressive funk way they did on their (believe it or not) four earlier CDs. A pair of guitarists alternates corpse-cold speedmetal slashes with competent Jimmy Page steals, but the drumbeats propel nothing forward. Filling all 74 disc minutes available, the resulting groove just drags on forever, aimlessly.
In the summery, Afro-Caribbean jazzed "Stealing Happy Hours" and the east-of-the-River Nile snake charmer "Light Years," a certain degree of heart somehow manages to shine through. And in "Starshines," Nick Hexum's speedy, Mike-D's-country-cousin whine rhyming exhibits a tap-dancey, kinetic energy reminiscent of forgotten '80s electro-rap innovators Mantronix.
But for the most part, 311 are trying too hard to expand their sonic horizons, probably so cynics can't accuse them of unoriginality anymore. Problem is, these lucky alt.rock lottery winners have forfeited whatever power they once possessed in the process.
Artist: Primus
Album: Brown Album
Record Label: Prawn Song/lnterseope
Reviewed By: Tom Moon
THERE ARE MANY TYPES OF MUsic on Brown Album, the sixth full-length effort from Primus: bits of funk, jazz-wonk fusion, country gallops and even a touch of Benny Goodman. But a funny thing happens when these grooves go through the Primusizer: They all wind up sounding the same. They become stomps. Military marches. Lurching cartoon music. Galumphing processionals more notable for their robotic persistence than for their musical invention.
Brown Album might best be appreciated as the soundtrack to some strange Dr. Seuss-ian pageant, a parade of R. Crumb oddballs who wander the streets in military formation. It's precisely the type of weirdness that Primus have been peddling for years - progressive-rock instrumentals camouflaged in the tattered rags of punk and the absurdist narratives of a junior Zappa. But in the past, bassist and vocalist Les Claypool and his cronies strove for rhythm patterns that constantly knocked listeners off-balance. This time, they want everybody marching along - how else to explain the rudimentary slap-bass stomp of "Shake Hands With Beef" or the country/fox trot "Puddin' Taine"?
This more accessible cadence does have its benefits. Unlike 1993's relentless Pork Soda, Brown Album moves away from Primus' pet herky-jerky shifts of meter long enough to establish serious, straightforward grooves. "Bob's Party Time Lounge" is a sassy soul-revue sendup that grows more intense with each refrain; "Camelback Cinema" turns on an insistent chanting reminiscent of vintage David Bowie; and "The Chastizing of Renegade" is built on an agitated guitar-and-bass lock that makes Rush sound simple. But even these bright spots are more accomplished than inspired: Happily nonsensical, they're hammering exercises that use the trio's technically flawless execution to cover up its increasingly obvious soul deficit.
Artist: Steve Winwood
Album: Junction Seven
Reviewed By: Susan Richardson
Virgin EVER SINCE THE SPENCER DAVIS Group's I967 hit "Gimme Some Lovin'," Steve Winwood has been known for his fluid, exuberant melodies, angelic voice and dare-you-tostand-still rhythmic underpinning. His newest and seventh solo album, aptly titled Junction Seven, won't change that. Though there are new flavors here - the mambo-inspired "Gotta Get Back to My Baby" and the jazz-tinged "Lord of the Street" - Winwood once again relies on the basic horn band that typifies his own brand of R&B. And, as usual, he is joined by artists who know how to lay a groove: Producer Nile Rodgers, who performed on I986's "Higher Love," plays rhythm guitar on a cover (the only one on the album) of Sly and the Family Stone's "Family Affair"; Lenny Kravitz plays guitar on "Let Your Love Come Down"; and "Plenty Lovin'" is a soulful duet with Des'ree that harks back to the he/she posing and easy sexiness of the late-'60s collaborations of Marvin Gaye and Tammi Terrell.
There are no true standout tracks on Junction Seven along the lines of "Higher Love." And many of the new songs - such as "Angel of Mercy" and "Someone Like You" - reflect Winwood's penchant for standard romantic pop themes, with words that don't quite rise to the challenge of his musicianship or voice ("Someone like you to hold my hand/Someone like you to understand"). But then, lyrics aren't really the point for Winwood these days.Junction Seven may not be a surprise, but it's a thorough delight nonetheless.
Artist: Jimi Hendrix
Album: Are You Experienced?
Album: Axis: Bold as Love 
Album: Electric Ladyland
Album: First Rays of the New Rising Sun
Artist: Miles Davis
Album: Miles Davis at Fillmore
Album: Black Beauty
Album: Live/El
Album: Miles Davis in Concert
Album: Dark Magus
Artist: Van Morrison
Album: Tupelo Honey
Album: St. Dominic's Preview
Album: Hard Nose the Highway
Album: . . . It's Too Late to Stop Now . . .
Album: Veedon Fleece
Album: A Period of Transition
Artist: Mission of Burma
Album: Signals, Calls and Marches
Album: Vs.
Reviewed By: Mark Coleman
IS THIS LOVE OR CONFUSION? THE LATEST ROUND OF remastered JIMI HENDRIX albums initially seems like a case of gilding the lily. Most human ears won't detect much difference in the Experience Hendrix/MCA versions of his catalog - the only discernible change from MCA's 1993 reissues is that the new editions of Are You Experienced?, Axis: Bold as Love and Electric Ladyland have the original cover art. But the unfinished final album, First Rays ofthe New Rng Sun, only now emerges as a cohesive cosmic missive. Stitched together from spotty posthumous releases (The Cry of Love, Rainbow Bridge, War Heroes), First Rays illuminates what would have been a transitional phase for Hendrix. Along with the requisite burning-flesh instrumental workouts, it also presents Hendrix in his lyrical, ruminative mode. "Angel" and "Night Bird Flying" retrieve spare, beautiful melodies from spaced-out melancholy.
MILES DAVIS heard the jazz potential in Hendrix's incandescent rock; after Hendrix died, in 1970, Davis picked up the electric torch and carried it forward. The progression across the five (! ) doubledisc (!) live albums recently released by Legacy is astonishing. Three of these exciting documents come from 1970 alone: Miles Davis at Fillmore stacks electric-piano motifs on top of shifting, swinging rhythms; Black Beauty adds a funkier backbeat and fluid, finger-popping bass; and Live/El unfurls John McLaughlin's shivery guitar lines and some sly, slinky rhythms. By 1972's Miles Davis in Concert, guitar feedback and dense, humid polyrhythms provide the thick cushion for Davis. On Dark Magus, from 1974, guitarists Pete Cosey and Reggie Lucas spill their instruments' guts over a relentless, rocking beat.
What do you do after you've painted your masterpiece? In the wake of Moondance, VAN MORRISON spent the next 10 years exploring side trips and dodging expectations. Polydor has captured his breadth with six new reissues: 1971's Tupelo Honey finds Morrison in a pastoral mode - mellow romance sparked with a fiery glow. St. Dominic's Preview ('72) captures the full range of his talent: hand-clapping R&B ("Jackie Wilson Said") and Celtic soul-searching ("Listen to the Lion") emitted in the same easy flow. Hard Nose the Highway ('73) experiments with orchestral maneuvers and literate pop-culture references. On . . . It's Too Late to Stop Now . . . ('74 ), Morrison delivers a dramatic and definitive live LP. The fleet-footed Veedon Fleece ('74 ) swings like acoustic jazz, despite the increasing weight of Morrison's lyrics; A Period of Transition ('77) settles into a comfortable, bluesy groove that belies the tentative-sounding title. Even on the commercial Wavelength ('78), Van Morrison breathes an air of profundity into the simplest "la-la-la" choruses.
MISSION OF BURMA were an anomaly in the early'80s; this Boston outfit pumped out a wall of noise - abrasive guitar textures studded with caustic pop choruses - in the era of New Wave nights down at the disco. Rykodisc's re-release of their abbreviated catalog is a bracing revelation. The 1981 EP Signals, Calls and Marches contains the band's catchiest, most angst-ridden anthems ("That's When I Reach for My Revolver") while the 1982 LP Vs. features galloping rave-ups like "Learn How" that leave most '90s thrash rockers in the dust. The band had to retire in 1983 because guitarist Roger Miller damaged his hearing - by playing so damn loud. If that sounds like a recommendation, the collected works of M.O.B. won't let you down.
Artist: The Harbaliser
Album: Blow Your Headphones
Record Label: Ninja Tune
Reviewed By: Josh Kun
FAR MORE COMPELLING THAN their 1995 debut, Remedies, this second full-length LP from British B-boys Herbaliser (Jake Wherry and Ollie Teeba) is a textured, experimental valentine to U.S. hip-hop. Wherry and Teeba keep things slow, sparse and measured throughout, sprinkling jazz bass lines, guitar loops, flutes, strings and clever cut-up vocal samples over chiseled break beats and Teeba's precise turntable scratches. But the duo shows its best taste by recruiting scene-stealing New York rapper What What, whose smooth, nimble rhymes on tracks such as "Hardcore" come the closest to inflicting the audio damage that the album's title promises.
Artist: Megadeath
Album: Cryptic Writings
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: Jon Wiederhorn
THIS IS A TALE OF RETRIBUTION. Megadeth frontman Dave Mustaine, once booted from the mighty Metallica, has penned Cryptic Writings, a gripping, high-voltage album that should thrill Metallica fans who felt screwed by that band's thrashless 1996 album, Load. In an era of alt-metal bluster, Megadeth have remained true to form, stirring up a snarling brew of nasal yowls, crunchy riffs and speed-of-light guitar solos that would paralyze Yngwie Malmsteen. Whether building atmosphere with ominous tribal beats and jangly acoustic guitar ("Use the Man") or going for the jugular with buzz-saw rhythms and hardcore tempos ("The Disintegrators"), Megadeth wrap their bundles of spite with enough melody to keep the grooves memorable. Make way for the real metal militia.
Artist: Echo and the Bunnymen
Album: Evergreen
Reviewed By: Matt Diehl
ECHO AND THE BUNNYMEN'S REunion album doesn't quite hit the high-water mark of their 1984 classic, Ocean Rain, but it's a stunning comeback nonetheless. While late drummer Pete De Freita's tribal fills are missed (he died in a 1989 motorcycle accident), the remaining three-quarters of Echo find their hypnotic chemistry intact. Frontman Ian McCulloch brings his brooding melodrama to full flower on cuts like "Don't Let It Get You Down," on which he wonders, in his debauched baritone, "how it feels to touch the flame." Guitarist Will Sergeant flows effortlessly from the title track's Ennio Morricone-meets-raga drones to the Byrds-style hooks he drops into "In My Time." Evergreen also shows Echo keeping up with the Joneses - or at least the Gallaghers: Oasis' Liam Gallagher performs background vocals on "Nothing Lasts Forever," and "Just a Touch Away" features McCulloch droning a cadged bit from Oasis' "Live Forever." It's a phrase that Echo appear to have taken to heart.
Artist: Brad
Album: Interiors
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: Tom Moon
IT'S TEMPTING TO DISMISS BRAD as another Seattle side project, another collection of famous and near-famous musicians (Pearl Jam's Stone Gossard, solo artist Jeremy Toback, Shawn Smith and Regan Hagar from Satchel) doing that mostly spontaneous jam thing. But what's most notable about Interiors, Brad's second effort, is the pure pop focus of these nuanced compositions: the somber piano lilt that underpins "The Day Brings," the vague echo of Neil Young that drives "Circle and Line" and the fragile elegy "Upon My Shoulders" - one of several showcases for Smith's imploring, falsetto-kissed vocals. Classic grunge devices such as lumbering backbeats and roaring, pile-driving rhythm guitars do creep into the mix, but those Seattle-isms are just a couple of tools in Brad's shed.
Artist: Lisa Stansfield
Album: Lisa Stansfield
Record Label: Arista
Reviewed By: NATASHA STOVALL
SHE MAY HAIL FROM ENGLAND, but unlike many of her peers, soul singer Lisa Stansfield is not jumping on the latest U.K. dance trend. On her new album, Lisa Stansfield, the bass thumps quaintly along, and the drums are as mellow as tea and biscuits. The heat comes from Stansfield, who belts her heart out in a voice that's smooth and pliant when she's falling in love again ("The Real Thing") but edgy even harsh - when she's staring, eyes appropriately red-rimmed, at a broken affair ("I'm Leavin' "). So what if Stansfield will always fit more smoothly in a smoky piano bar than in the strobe-lit warehouse of a moody DJ star? Old-fashioned melodrama is where she's at.
Artist: The O’Jays
Album: Love You to Tears
Record Label: Soul/Volcano
Reviewed By: David Wild
EVERY ONCE IN A WHILE, NEPOtism turns out to be an excellent and even funky - idea. Love You to Tears, which finds Gerald Levert playing label head, producer and writer to his father Eddie's veteran soul group, is the strongest O'Jays album since the group's historic run with producers Kenny Gamble and Leon Huff. The various producers at work here - including Levert and Keith Sweat - find a strong, natural balance between the classic O'Jays sound of the '70s and a more current R&B approach. Songs like the gritty, "No Diggity"-ish "Pay the Bills," the ultrahorny "I Want My Cake" and the soaring title track prove that given the right context, old-school R&B dawgs can still teach new tricks.
Artist: Mu-Ziq
Album: Lunatic Harness
Record Label: Astra,werks
Reviewed By: Ken Micallef
WHETHER HE'S FIRING AGItated techno salvos or spraying scattershot drum and bass, Mike Paradinas, also known as u-Ziq, brings a refreshing sense of melody to his fourth album, Lunatic Harness. Like Aphex Twin and DJ Shadow, u-Ziq has made peace with his machines here, coaxing beautiful, melancholy sounds and fantastically twisted rhythms from them. From the album's ghostly surrealism ("Wannabe") to its Latin-jazz fusion ("Brace Yourself Jason") to its Philip Glass funk ("Catkin and Teasel"), on Lunatic Harness, u-Ziq etches expressive sometimes even humorous - little wrinkles into techno's typically hard shell.
Artist: Teenage Fanclub
Album: Songs From Northern Britain
Record Label: Creation/Columbia
Reviewed By: Elisabeth Vincentelli
SCOTTISH FOURSOME TEENAGE Fanclub got their start imitating the seminal American power-pop band Big Star. On Songs From Northern Britain, the Fanclub's sixth album, they've finally outgrown Big Star, only to fixate on the early songbook of the Byrds - it's all there, from the perfect harmonies to the wistful folkrock guitars. Considering that Teenage Fanclub has three songwriters (Norman Blake, Gerard Lov and Raymond McGinley), it's amazing how homogeneous Songs sounds: The tracks all meld into one another, cocooned in a gauze of gentle vocals and innocuous melodies. Only "Mount Everest" and "Ain't That Enough" stand out in any form - the first one, thanks to a majestic piano; the second with its pleasant (if very Byrds-y) use of tambourine and glockenspiel. Overall, Songs is soothing to the point of narcolepsy. What's next? The Eagles?
Artist: Whiskeytown
Album: Stranger’s Almanac
Record Label: Outpost
Reviewed By: Grant Alden
IF THERE'S TO BE A NIRVANA among the bands that are imprecisely dubbed alternative country, look to Whiskeytown. Ryan Adams is a gifted writer who pens aching songs about alienation and love's lackings, and sings in a weary voice scuffed by hard luck. That he hails from Jacksonville, N.C., accounts for the twang; guitarist Phil Wandscher's fondness for the Rolling Stones adds drive; and Caitlin Cary's violin and vocals burnish the edges. Their second proper outing, like its predecessor, is not quite a masterpiece - still tentative, still learning. But for a handful of gutwrenching songs, notably "16 Days" and "Excuse Me While I Break My Own Heart Tonight," Adams is far beyond his 22years.