Album: Homogenic
Artist: BJORK
Record Label: Electra
Reviewed By: Neva Chonin
LIKE HER CATASTROPHIcally beautiful homeland, Bjork Gudmundsdottir is a marvel of working contradictions. She's a boho, high-profile dance diva and a fiercely private mother who made news by sparring with a Bangkok, Thailand, camera crew trying to photograph her son; she's a whimsical space cookie who spikes interviews with asides about polar bears and flying, fluffy teaspoons, and a tough pragmatist whose 1995 single "Army of Me" told a spineless lover to show some "self-sufficience, please/And get to work." And though she may look fragile from the outside, her fourth solo album, Homogenic, proves again that she's as tough and enduring as an Icelandic lava field.
Since her group, the Sugarcubes, broke up, in 1992, Bjork has translated her personal paradoxes into records that pair classical music and pop standards with cutting-edge dance devices, and trilling love songs with rambunctious vocal experiments. Her first solo album, 1993's Debut, put bop back into pop with offbeat songwriting and inviting, rave-inspired dance beats. The 1995 follow-up, Post, pushed into more creative turf and prefigured electronic music's surge into the mainstream with its mix of looped beats and warm, huggy humanism.
The two years since have been tumultuous ones for Bjork: Her personal life became fodder for British gossip pages; her remix LP, Telegram, met with mixed reviews; and she was nearly on the receiving end of a letter bomb from a demented fan. The album that came out of all this turmoil, Homogenic - the first that she's co-produced (with Mark Bell of LFO lending support on most tracks) - is her most quixotic and personal to date. It's also certain to be rough going for fans looking for the sweet melodies and peppy dance collages of her earlier releases. Homogenic could just as well be titled Heterogenic: Live instrumentation (much of it courtesy of the Icelandic String Octet) and computer-generated sounds seem to be juxtaposed rather than mixed, creating a mood of subtle tension in which the album's structure appears perpetually near collapse. Bjork's voice floats across the tracks, emitting chirps and squeals like a kazoo, defiantly losing itself in a labyrinth of echoing beats and shimmering strings.
On Post, Bjork seemed to be writing lyrics from the perspective of an eccentric homebody given to daydreaming; on Homogenic, she leaves home and investigates love's bumpier back roads. Her soundtrack for the journey moves from the brash marching rhythm of "Hunter" ("If travel is searching/And home has been found/I'm not stopping/I'm going hunting") to the melodic euphoria of "All Neon Like" and, finally, to the discordant clatter of"Immature." Each song's arrangement underscores its lyrics' emotional impact: The album's first single, "Joga," features a bucolic string section battling with a storm of chaotic break beats, reflecting the singer's desire to remain in an erotic "state of emergency" that she finds both delicious and dangerous. "Bachelorette," like the on-and-off love affair it describes, extracts beauty from conflict, as guest arranger Eumir Deodato's lush orchestration spars with Mark Bell's mechanistic rhythm track, creating a dialectical tug of war that stubbornly evades resolution. And when the album's signature track, "Alarm Call," offers aphorisms both down-to-earth and transcendent ("I have walked this earth and watched people/I can be sincere and say I like them.... I'm no fucking Buddhist/ But this is enlightenment"), its accompaniment does the same, bringing its jousting strings and synthesizers together momentarily in a collective blast of down 'n' dirty funk.
With Homogenic, Bjork proves that good art, like good love, relies as much on the interplay of opposites as it does on fusion. Let other musicians blend electronica and rock into a pop puree; Bjork celebrates difference and challenges listeners to explore the joys of contradiction with open ears and vivid imaginations. What's more, she does so without the safety net of instantly hummable hooks or predictable song structures. Instead she offers ingenuity with a human touch that's all too rare in the rock & rave '90s. That alone makes Homogenic one of the boldest - and most exciting - albums of the year.
Album: Peace and Noise
Artist: PATTI SMITH
Record Label: Arista
Reviewed By: David Fricke
THIS ALBUM - LIKE "GONE Again," Patti Smith's 1996 memorial to her dear departed - is alive with ghosts: the patient spirits bearing silent witness in "Waiting Underground"; the young soldier who is incinerated in a copter crash and propelled to eternal peace by Smith and her stampeding band in the long, loud studio improvisation "Memento Mori"; the late Allen Ginsberg, whose "Footnote to Howl" is the lyric meat of "Spell." Even the guitars have a spectral quality - the spindly picking in "Spell," the gauzy distortion in "Waiting Underground." And in the bleak beauty "Last Call," written by Smith and guitarist Oliver Ray in anguished response to the Heaven's Gate suicides, Michael Stipe's singing echoes Smith's maternal psalmody like a whisper from the other side of consciousness.
But Peace and Noise also hums with the crude energy of survival, a whiplash mix of scarred joy, big anger and the heavy weight of responsibility. In "Dead City," a blunt, metallic indictment of scorched-earth greed that sounds like "Because the Night" kicked black and blue, she spits and snarls the words as if on the verge of retching. The garage-jangle hymn "Whirl Away" is part sermon, part elegy, Smith's voice choked with a mother's disbelief at the cutthroat trade in precious teenage lives.
Compared with the fragile intimacy of Gone Again, Peace and Noise is stern in mood, often gruff in tone. But Smith and her band - Ray, guitarist Lenny Kaye, drummer J.D. Daugherty and bassist Tony Shanahan - burrow into the music with an earthy, focused empathy eerily close to that of Bob Dylan and the Band's on The Basement Tapes. Smith even quotes Dylan at one point ("But nothin' was delivered/Nothin' good was comin' "), as she chastises herself for self-pity and inaction in the tense shuffle "Don't Say Nothing": "I just stood there/I couldn't believe it/But I didn't say nothin'." If this album has a single moral, it is this: With so many gone and so much left to lose, the worst thing you can do is nothing.
Album: So Much for the Afterglow
Artist: EVERCLEAR
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: Barney Hoskyns
SAINT COBAIN STILL HAS A LOT to answer for. The media's burial of grunge notwithstanding, a host of bands are still churning out chunky punk-metal riffs and strained, angsty poetry. And a host of sulking adolescents wearing flaky nail polish are still buying it.
The major-label debut by neo-Nirvana trio Everclear, Sparkle and Fade, caught the authentic note of vacant ennui that haunts adolescent America. But the songs on So Much for the Afterglow manage only to present a series of victims, objects of leadman Art Alexakis' confused contempt or peculiarly mopey brand of compassion: the neglectful ne'er-do-well of "Father of Mine"; the people-pleasing nymphet of the first single, "Everything to Everyone"; the two-dimensional "magazine girl" of "Amphetamine." Alexakis seems incapable of irony, depicting these people in a manner that's never less than heavy-handed.
Afterglow is clearly meant to spice up the three-chord roar of Sparkle and its indie predecessor, World of Noise, but the new album is a good deal less adventurous than the band realizes. Adding horns and strings, parodying the Beach Boys and roping in Rami Jaffee of the Wallflowers to play organ doesn't address the album's basic problem, which is a dense uniformity of mood that reduces every song's subject to the same raw howl. Even on "Why I Don't Believe in God," a song about the nervous breakdown that Alexakis' mother suffered when he was 8 years old, a Wilco-style banjo and slide guitar fail to disguise the essential monotony of the music.
Two of Afterglow's songs suggest, furthermore, that Alexakis is courting hubris. One is "One Hit Wonder," about a rock wanna-be selling his soul to "the pretty machine." (So what prompts all those thank-you's to "the good people at Converse, Doc Martens, Columbia Sportswear and BC Ethic" in the liner notes, eh, boys?) The other is the closer, "Like a California King," in which he lambastes a fellow Los Angeles star for wearing his "checkered past/Just like a shining suit of gold." Isn't that precisely what Alexakis is doing?
Alnum: Urban Hymns
Artist: THE VERVE
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: Jon Wiederhorn
IN THE EARLY '90S, THE VERVE were one of a gaggle of English bands playing a form of sprawling, sometimes monotonous psychedelia that overlooked hooks and choruses in favor of texture and atmosphere. Frustrated by a lack of success and the inability to get along, the Verve split up shortly after the release of their 1995 LP, A Northern Soul. But now, after two years in limbo, the Verve have reunited and, with Urban Hymns, crafted their strongest album to date.
Unlike their past material, which was often hypnotic but rarely melodic, the songs on Urban Hymns are anchored by propulsive guitar rhythms and sinuous, infectious vocals. On the spacier numbers, the Verve still flutter and glow, but they no longer induce sleep; on the traditionally structured songs, they touch a tuneful, commercial nerve without ever losing their flair for innovation. The stirring "Bitter Sweet Symphony" intertwines baroque strings worthy of Pachalbel with sedated vocals and shimmering guitar lines. "The Drugs Don't Work," meanwhile, is a tear-stained ballad enhanced with sparse, nebulous horns and reverberating pedal steel guitar.
But while the music is rooted in escape, the lyrics address the need to cope. Frontman Richard Ashcroft is consumed with mortality, and on "Bitter Sweet Symphony," he sings, "Try to make ends meet, you're a slave to money, then you die." Rather than resign himself to the meaninglessness of it all, however, he seeks hope and support in love, which he expresses in "Space and Time": "Oh, can you comfort me tonight, make it all seem fine/I just can't make it alone." Trite as such verses sound, they work. Urban Hymns is a breathtaking venture, an ambitious balance of stargazing and worldly pathos.
Album: The Big Picture
Artist: ELTON JOHN
Record Label: Roeket/MCA
Reviewed By: David Wild
RECENT EVENTS HAVE CONfirmed what many of us have long known - that Elton John has earned the status of true pop royalty. Indeed, with Michael Jackson's career having become a royal mess, and Billy Joel choosing to go classical on us, perhaps it's time we finally got around to crowning Sir Elton of Hits our reigning King of Pop.
Although he's had his share of creative and personal ebbs and flows, Elton John has remained a pop-culture force for more than 30 years now. As befits a recording artist of such enduring stature, John is clearly not a man searching for his musical identity at this juncture. The Big Picture doesn't find him responding even remotely to recent developments in Brit pop or electronica or hip-hop, and thank God for that tender mercy. Instead, this stately set of songs presents yet another grand portrait of the artist as a not-so-young but still wildly gifted man.
Produced with broad but effective strokes by Chris Thomas, The Big Picture offers a sort of CinemaScope orchestral pop that could easily grow overblown in lesser hands. Coming from confident old pros like John and his lyricist, Bernie Taupin, however, it's an album full of lush songs with memorable melodies composed by a man who was making hit songs when Oasis were well-behaved and Hanson weren't even a gleam in the Spice Girls' eyes. The album's first single, "Something About the Way You Look Tonight," is the sort of big ladieschoice ballad that's sure to become somebody's wedding song. Other standouts here include the gospely "If the River Can Bend," the infectiously smooth "Recover Your Soul" and the hugely horny closer, "Wicked Dreams."
Far from edgy or groundbreaking, The Big Picture nonetheless offers another lovely view of why this madman from across the water is still standing - and standing proudly at that.
Album: Dispepsi
Artist: NEGATIVLAND
Reviewed By: Josh Kun
SIX YEARS HAVE PASSED SINCE veteran West Coast media guerrillas and anti-copyright champions Negativland were sued by Island Records for their "unfair" use of a sampled fragment of a U2 song. But judging by the relentless spirit of their latest found-sound polemic against the Pepsi empire, Dispepsi, not even bank-account-draining lawsuits can stop the evolution of what they've named "culture jamming": the cut-and-paste, countercorporate art of using the media to critique itself.
Dispepsi is not the first album on which Negativland have set their sights on the disposable world of corporate advertising, but it is certainly their most compelling. Beginning with the sound of an aluminum can being opened and ending with the sound of one being crushed, Dispepsi stealthily recycles and manipulates a deep, decade-spanning archive of commercials, jingles, celebrity endorsements and other Pepsi-related media blips into a pointed series of collaged musical commentaries.
Wielding their knack for parody and satire as a grass-roots weapon of consumer resistance, Negativland take on Pepsi's use of black athletes ("Why Is This Commercial?"), relive the marketing battles and blindfolded taste tests of the great '80s "cola wars" ("All She Called About" and "I Believe It's L"), and even piece together a rousing chorus of celeb Pepsi boosters that includes everyone from Ricardo Montalban to Marion Ross to Michael J. Fox ("A Most Successful Formula"). The group's attack is so exhaustive and so cleverly rendered that even after one listen to Dispepsi, you'll never think of soft drinks in the same way again.
Album: Farewells and Fantasies
Artist: Phil Ochs
Reviewed By: Mikal Gilmore
PHIL OCHS - A FOLK SINGER WHO WAS BOTH AN EARLY CHAMpion and contemporary of Bob Dylan - spent the better part of his career writing songs of angry hope and fierce humor, songs that seethed with idiosyncratic dreams of a better and more ethical culture. At the same time, some of Ochs' most memorable work also radiated moving, firsthand images of anguish and madness, until, by the mid1970s - after his vocal cords had been severely damaged by a mugging in Africa and his career had all but collapsed in disillusion - the agony became insufferable. In April 1976, Phil Ochs handed himself at his sisters home, in Far Rockaway, N.Y., and pop music lost one of its most conscientious and compassionate voices.
Farewells and Fantasies - a three-CD set - covers Ochs' difficult migration from being a man who dreamed of hope to a man who finally dreamed only of death. The majority of the set's first two discs could almost serve as a historical sketch of the trajectories of the horrid explosion of the Vietnam War and the struggle for black civil rights, and how these disruptions transformed America's dreams and destinies, revealing a great ugliness at the nation's heart. With the notable exception of Bob Dylan, few song ters wrote more affectingly or intelligently about this period of upheaval than Ochs; and while Dylan's best topical songs may have been more tuneful or visionary, Ochs probably had a fuller grasp of both the historical and the emotional forces that brought the nation to that awful time, and he also realized what would come of it all. Songs like "Power and the Glory," "Love Me, I'm a Liberal," "Here's to the State of Mississippi," "I Ain't Marching Anymore" and "There but for Fortune" still work as rousing and deeply felt statements of conscience, but they are hardly Ochs' most profound political works. With such later songs as "When in Rome" and "Pretty Smart on My Part," Ochs addressed something far more formidable and frightening than a cause: He, in fact, looked at what America was making of itself.
According to this set's historical text (written by ROLLING STONE Senior Editor Mark Kemp), Ochs became disillusioned and deeply depressed by the brutal confrontations between youthful protesters and police forces during 1968's Chicago Democratic Convention (with Jerry Rubin and Abbie Hoffman, Ochs had helped organize the event's protest coalition). But by that time, Ochs had already started exploring different styles in his writing and recordings. He had grown enamored of the inventive textures of the Beatles and the complex orchestrations of Charles Ives and Brian Wilson, and he incorporated some of these interests into his 1967 album, Pleasures ofthe Harbor. On Harbor, Ochs mixed beauty with dissonance, hope with terror, fervor with despair, and life with death. Unfortunately, this is the period with which Farewells has the greatest difficulty. On some occasions, the set's compilers have opted for live or demo versions of songs that were better served in their original recordings; in one instance, this practice of substitution proves almost tragic. "Crucifixion" is perhaps Ochs' most startling and unforgettable song - a transfixing account of the John F. Kennedy assassination and how that event began America's decline. In its original form, "Crucifixion," with its grotesque, swirling electronic sounds, was not easy to withstand; and so here the producers have opted for a simpler live acoustic performance, thus dismissing one of Ochs' most brilliant achievements. It's as if, in the end, they were afraid to follow Ochs too closely into the darkness.
Maybe that's how it should be. Certainly, Ochs' decline into alcoholism, depression, paranoia and solitude was a painful trek, and in some ways it remains one of popular music's sadder mysteries: how a man so full of hope grew so lost. Phil Ochs is gone now, never to return. And so is his America. But we still have the sounds and memories of what once was. Farewells and Fantasies is a fine reminder of all that is now forsaken.
Artist: Various
Album: The End of Violence: Songs From the Motion Picture
Record Label: Outpost Recordings/DGC
Reviewed By: Elisabeth Vincentelli
WIM WENDERS HAS ALWAYS been one of the biggest Americanophiles among European filmmakers. In The End of Violence (his first movie set in the United States since his 1984 film, Paris, Texas), Wenders explores various shades of musical Americana, both through Ry Cooder's score (sold separately) and in this selection of songs.
As a stand-alone compilation, The End of Violence: Songs From the Motion Picture works reasonably well. Thanks to some seemingly jarring transitions tracks from Tom Waits and Los Lobos, as well as a Michael Stipe/Vic Chesnutt duet, are featured next to accessible examples of electronica from Howie B and DJ Shadow - the album makes for a convenient sampler of polite, left-of-center fare. (For fans of the Natalie Cole school of recording, there's even a new Roy Orbison track that uses vocals recorded right before his death.)
As a cohesive soundtrack, the album is less convincing. The single biggest dud, Whiskeytown's "Theme for a Trucker," resorts to pedestrian imagery (the lonely king of the road, the motel, etc.) and unintentionally illustrates how a song can kill a mood by being too obvious. On the other hand, Cooder's "Define Violence," DJ Shadow's "Untitled Heavy Beat (Part I and z)" and especially the Latin Playboys' "Mr. Wobble" are deeply evocative instrumentals that suggest but don't dictate images. These tracks become almost liberating as they allow listeners to create their own mental pictures - pictures that may even, who knows, rival Wenders' own.
Album: Jelly Tones
Artist: KEN ISHII
Record Label: The Medicine Label
Album: X-Mix: Fast Forward and Rewind
Artist: KEN ISHII
Reviewed By: James Hunter
JAPANESE DJ AND PRODUCER Ken Ishii is no everyday groove hound. On Jelly Tones pieces like the well-named "Stretch" and the silkier "Moved By Air," the 27-year-old interrupts the rhythmic flow of his bass drums and gongs all the time - like a great swimmer who keeps changing strokes. "Extra" (with a video directed by Kouji Morimonto, of Akira fame) begins with high-pitched military drumming, then steals away into repeating, barking riffs.
This is music that boasts the incessant compositional activity of, say, Future Sound of London and the crystalline acuity of, Underworld. A couple of times, as on the climactic "Endless Sealson," Ishii rolls out Asian instrumental vibes, nodding somewhere in the direction of Ryuichi Sakamoto's old Yellow Magic Orchestra. But Jelly Tones isn't much like anything - except itself.
Ishii's fine, restless touch also fires X-Mix: Fast Forward and Rewind - part of a series of DJ-mixed compilations on the German K7 label - which features his mix of 18 tracks by other artists (including Coldcut, Squarepusher and United Future Organization), plus two new songs of his own. In the middle of it, working with Frank de Wulf's "Drums in a Grip," Ishii pushes the bass sky-high, then revs up the drums even higher. Everything around them stops. There's static in the naked air, a weird kind of rhythmic back-andforth that feels like a groove but doesn't act like a groove. Ken Ishii's in the house. (X-Mix is available from K7 Records, 210 Fifth Ave., New York, NY. 10010)
Album: Release Some Tension
Artist: SWV
Record Label: RCA
Reviewed by: NATASHA STOVALL
THOUGH THEY'VE GOT SOME OF the most mellifluous voices in the biz, SWV almost wind up as backup singers on their new Release Some Tension. Wedding themselves to the new hit juggernaut - hip-hop mixed with R&B - the New Yorkers in three Sisters With Voices carry water for rappers-of-the-moment Puff Daddy, Lil' Kim and Foxy Brown, as well as for such veterans as Redman and Snoop Doggy Dogg.
Not that it isn't a funky good time. Even in the background, SWV's diva croons and tight, soul-heavy harmonies cut a killer track. "Can We" already a hit off the Booty Call soundtrack - is a gem that features Missy "Misdemeanor" Elliott's spacey, staccato sex promises and SWV's smooth seduction pouring over an obese bass and an irresistible drumbeat.
Even with their ultraproduced hiphop jams, SWV are true to their R&B roots, i.e., they're obsessed with romance and - since it's not the '50s anymore sex. Release Some Tension alternates between sweet yearning (on SWV-only tracks like the wistful "Rain" and the self-explanatory "Here for You") and hot-and-heavy panting ("Come and Get Some," with E-qo, and "Give It Up," guest-starring Lil' Kim). The rise of the sexually liberated woman rapper mixes up the rapper-singer dynamic a bit, giving SWV a chance to collaborate with women who are upfront about their desires. Kim, Brown and Elliott detail the erotic fantasies that SWV, in their restrained sensuality, only hint at. Maybe next time the Sisters will take center stage and tell the whole story themselves.
Album: When Disaster Strikes. . .
Artist: BUSTA RHYMES
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: James Hunter
BUSTA RHYMES FOLLOW-UP TO The Coming, his1996 solo debut, is a complicated suite about the end of the century from hip-hop's high-volume major-domo. Inevitably, rap's recent tragedies haunt the music: In "Things We Be Doin' for Money," a two-part jam, Rhymes finds himself in an escalating altercation, only to wake up in the middle of the night, recognizing the possibly murderous situation as a nightmare. He phones a sleepy friend, a guy whose chief concern is showing up at the studio the next morning on time; like all of When Disaster Strikes . . ., the tone of the song runs from life-threatening seriousness to goofy everyday intimacy. "Things We Be Doin' for Money" is quickly followed by "One," a track built around a Stevie Wonder sample, on which Rhymes and Erykah Badu do an angular prayer dance about respect and shared destiny. Afterward comes "Dangerous," which overhauls the notion of certain people's fear of black men, and the Sean "Puffy" Combs-produced "The Body Rock," about the joys of looking like Tyson Beckford. In different ways, these tunes are so quick minded, witty and rhythmically on that they blast through hiphop's current impasse.
Still, for all of Rhymes' hardy stretches and keen juxtapositions - like the smoking sequence from "Turn It Up," with its great Al Green sample, to the slightly drum-and-bassy "Put Your Hands Where My Eyes Could See" despair edges in. The first four songs are given over to premillennial jitters ("It's about to get real fucked up," he intones in the album's intro, "for everyone everywhere!"). As he nears the end of 1997, for all his cartoonish antics, Rhymes can't just always close his eyes and party.
Album: Adam and Eve 
Artist: CATHERINE WHEEL 
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: ROBERT LEVINE
CATHERINE WHEEL BEGAN, IN the early 'gos, as a moody, distortion-heavy "shoe gazer" band, but the English group's attention and ambition have since shifted to the stars. With its fourth LP, Adam and Eve, it eschews the guitar-heavy haze of previous efforts for appealing melodies and a sense of drama and musical sweep rarely found in 'gos guitar rock. "Here Comes the Fat Controller" offers a beautiful melody filtered through a fuzz-toned fog; "Delicious" adds textured guitars and psychedelic sounds to power-pop energy; and "Future Boy" conveys naked emotion on a scale so grand that it would make Billy Corgan proud. Steering clear of art-rock excess, on Adam and Eve, Catherine Wheel deliver beautifully embellished pop with a sonic scope rarely seen since Pink Floyd's prime.
Album: All of Us Can Be Rich . .
Artist: EC8OR
Record Label: Grand Royal/Digital Hardcore Recordings
Album: Shizuo vs. Shizor 
Artist: SHIZUO
Record Label: Grand Royal/Digital Hardcore Recordings
Reviewed By: ANTHONY BOZZA
TWO MORE ACTS FROM GERmany's Digital Hardcore label remind us that techno is about more than party-hearty beats, buds and ecstasy. On All of Us Can Be Rich. ., Ec8or combine distorted, warp-speed drumbeats, metallic screeches, thrash guitar and what sounds like the death throes of doomed computers, creating a relentless wall of sound, pierced intermittently by Gina V. D'Orio's ranting vocals.
Shizuo, a k a David Hammer, comes off more funked up than fucked up. Shizuo vs. Shizor contains glimmers of Ec8or's menacing nihilism ("Punks," "Emptiness"), but Hammer is best at his most irreverent: "Sexual High" samples both the Six Million Dollar Man's shimmering jump sound and the theme from Jeopardy!, while "Blondo" could be Daft Punk covering Blondie's "Heart of Glass." Bracing fare from some ravers gone postal.
Album: The Magic City
Artist: HELIUM
Record Label: Matador
Reviewed By: JON WIEDERHORN
AFTER STARTING OUT AS SKEWED, a spectral indie rockers, Helium have evolved into astral-projecting voyagers who sound like they've been inhaling more than helium. The Magic City features the band's usual ragged arrangements and Mary Timony's trademark breathy vocals, but the album is also imbued with a rainbow of otherworldly keyboards and sprawling rhythms that recall space explorers like Can and Nektar. On "Leon's Space Song," New Wave synthesizers reminiscent of the Cars' squiggle through abrupt guitar stabs and a hypnotic beat, and on "Medieval People," a delicate harpsichord melody contrasts strikingly with ominous, buzzing keyboards and exploding-bomb sounds. With The Magic City, Helium have discovered a strange new world where progressive isn't always synonymous with pompous. 
Artist: Susana Baca
Album: Susana Baca
Record Label: Luaka Pop/Warner Bros. 
Reviewed By: TOM MOON
PERUVIAN SINGER SUSANA BACA is blessed with the same curiosity that compels Afro-pop stars and folks like David Byrne to seek inspiration beyond their own borders. Though her music is rooted in the simple songs of Afro-Peruvian folklore, Baca incorporates touches of Astrud Gilberto's windblown Brazilian sweetness, Celia Cruz's wholly Cuban rhythmic certainty and Cesaria Evora's Cape Verdean rue into her understated delivery. "Se Me Van Los Pies," from her tremendous U.S. debut, illustrates this range: After two minutes of solemn atmosphere and ritual chanting, along comes a handdrum ensemble cranking out rudimentary hip-hop beats. The music morphs again, this time into a series of fiery call-and-response exchanges that captures Baca doing what she does best: revitalizing age-old melodies.
Album: Apartment Life 
Artist: IVY
Record Label: Atlantic
Reviewed By: IRA ROBBINS
FRANCE MAY BE DULLSVILLE AS A natural source of rock & roll, but there's no better accent for breezy pop music than a melodious French lilt.
Apartment Life, the second album by Ivy - a New York trio that shares bassist and composer Adam Schlesinger with Fountains of Wayne - presents a delightful line of vintage originals smartly modeled by alluring singer Dominique Durand. The casual sophisticate glides calmly through the emotional rubble of "I Get the Message," "Never Do That Again" and "You Don't Know Anything." Deftly garnishing top-shelf songs with horns and keyboards, on Apartment Life, Ivy put the fizz in cocktail culture.
Album: Delivery 
Artist: SCANNER
Record Label: Rawkus/Primitive
Reviewed by: ROBERT LEVINE
BLURRING THE LINE BETWEEN eavesdropping and art, British electronic musician and provocateur Scanner mixes surreptitiously "borrowed" snippets of cell-phone conversations into beat-heavy ambient music. The results are profoundly unsettling one's natural inclination to listen to the voices that Scanner samples is almost as creepy as the absence of privacy he exposes. The sampled male voice begging for love on "Heidi," for instance, conveys as much loneliness and desperation as any breakup song; and the eerie beats on "Barcode" prove there's more to this artist than high-tech phone high jinks. Scanner's ideas don't always blend well enough with his beats to make this intriguing album a smooth listen, but Delivery is certainly spooky enough to change the way you talk on the phone.
Album: Tilt
Artist: SCOTT WALKER 
Record Label: Drag City
Reviewed By: ROB KEMP
AMERICAN SINGER AND SONGwriter Scott Walker found massive success in Europe in the late '60s as a kind of hybrid of Engelbert Humperdinck and Ingmar Bergman - a golden baritone full of existential anxiety declaiming over lush orchestral arrangements. Along the way, his apocalyptic cabaret approach became a template for "orch pop" proponents such as the Divine Comedy and Eric Matthews. Tilt, however, is eons removed from Walker's '60s work; the "orch" remains, but the "pop" has been replaced by obtuse, sepulchral music that - believe it or not - matches the ambient extremity of Aphex Twin and the queasy claustrophobia of Tricky. Once an expansive singer, Walker now sings with a mournful choke about millennial dread and horror at human brutality. From its grand church-organ-driven arias ("Manhattan") to its bleak, shifting soundscapes ("Bolivia '95"), Tilt is a chilling, often magnificent view into the abyss from a true iconoclast. 
Album: Turn the Dark Off 
Artist: HOWIE B 
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: KURT B. REIGHLEY
THE SECOND FULL-LENGTH DISC from British DJ and producer Howie B leaves behind the aquatic ambience of last year's Music for Babies; even the mellowest cuts, "Baby Sweetcorn (Come Here)" and the summery "Limbo," are gently anchored by rhythmic loops. "Take Your Partner by the Hand," a pulsating collaboration with Robbie Robertson, is evidence that Howie hasn't forsaken the dance floor on Turn the Dark Off. And, from the brass flourishes of the adrenalin-charged "Angels Go Bald: Too" to the tissue-paper-andcomb harmonica riff on the Henry Mancini-esque "Switch," Howie's sense of humor discreetly permeates the proceedings.