Artist: Various
Album: Anthology of American Folk Music
Reviewed By: David Fricke
IT FIRST APPEARED, WITH little fanfare, in 1952, on the Folkways label. It was of questionable legality - basically a bootleg - and eccentric in its packaging (three double-LP sets) and annotation (the copy was laid out and illustrated like a 19th-century broadsheet). Even the title, implying broad academic authority, was misleading. In compiling what he audaciously called the Anthology of American Folk Music, Harry Smith drew his selections - 84 previously issued 78-rpm recordings of indigenous folk, blues, hillbilly and gospel songs - from a rich but narrow epoch: the nine years (1926-34) bridging the Jazz Age and the Great Depression. The Anthology was also a work of subjective taste; the 78s, out of print and all but forgotten by the companies that released them, came from Smith's own collection.
Today, it is impossible to overstate the historic worth, sociocultural impact and undiminished vitality of the music in this set, and of Smith's idiosyncratic scholarship and instinctive wisdom. Dressed up for the CD age in a deluxe six-disc box set, the Anthology of American Folk Music constitutes a bedrock of our national musical identity. The songs of hard labor ("Peg and Awl"), fatal attraction ("Henry Lee"), sudden violence ("Stackalee") and last requests ("See That My Grave Is Kept Clean") document in raw detail and poetic swing the immigrant struggle and the pioneer life. The artists, many of them local heroes when these sessions took place, include now-mythic figures, such as the Carter Family, blues singers Mississippi John Hurt, Furry Lewis and Charley Patton (credited as the Masked Marvel), and the great banjomen Dock Boggs, Clarence Ashley and Uncle Dave Macon.
The Anthology is also the mother river from which much of our popular music still pours forth. Bob Dylan,Jerry Garcia and Joan Baez were among the war babies smitten in adolescence by the earthy mysticism of the Anthology's lyrics, melodies and vivid traces of European and African folk cultures. In the '60s, Garcia and the Grateful Dead electrified Cannon's Jug Stompers' 1928 classic "Minglewood Blues," and Wilson Pickett turned "Stagger Lee" (or "Stackalee," as the white hillbilly guitarist Frank Hutchison sings it here) into full-blown soul power. This set's newly expanded liner notes also cite recent cover versions by PJ Harvey and Nick Cave (Dick Justice's 1929 waxing of "Henry Lee"), and No Depression icons Uncle Tupelo (Sara and Maybelle Carter's sublime 1928 reading of "John Hardy Was a Desperate Little Man").
To fully appreciate the special wonder of the Anthology of American Folk Music, one must examine the peculiar genius of Harry Smith. A Renaissance man in a time of creeping specialization, Smith (who died in 1991 at the age of 68) was a painter, filmmaker, anthropologist and inventor. He collected Ukrainian painted Easter eggs and American Indian relics. Smith was not a musician or a professional A&R man (although he produced the Fugs' 1964 debut LP). But he had a keen organizational mind - "The whole purpose is to have some kind of series of things," he once said - and he applied it to the Anthology to powerful, allegorical effect.
Unlike the father-and-son folklorists John A. and Alan Lomax, whose field recordings were a missionary effort to preserve endangered folk art, Smith used hits, in the sales and oraltradition meanings of the word, to create his own America. "Smithville," Greil Marcus calls it in his booklet essay: "a seamless web of connections and an anarchy of separations . . . a mystical body of the republic."
On Volume I of the Anthology, subtitled "Ballads," Smith depicted the common troubles of the underclass by setting songs about murder, backbreaking work and epic catastrophe by white acts (the Carters, the Carolina Tar Heels) next to those by black artists (Hurt, Lewis, Patton) - without referring to race in the credits. Volume 2, "Social Music," was explicitly about bonding and community. Smith caught the stark contrast between the sacred and the secular - juxtaposing the giddiness of "Indian War Whoop," by Hoyt Ming and the Pep Steppers, with the Rev. Sister Mary Nelson's stormy sermon "Judgement" while showing how both God and corn liquor could bring people together.
But for Smith, the Anthology was more than a history lesson. By filling the set with favorite discs from his personal stash (the Anthology was, in effect, the first commercially available mix tape), Smith proved that this was, above all, music for pleasure - funny and danceable, intimate and comforting. Blind Willie Johnson's 1930 hymn "John the Revelator" is a marvel of street-corner theology and rubberboned groove. And there is a dreamlike flair to Clarence Ashley's banjo attack and bright, sharp singing in "The Coo Coo Bird" that suits, and transcends, the song's strange, choppy imagery.
In his own way, Smith was - like Ashley, Johnson and the other performers here - an alchemist, turning familiar, base materials into something precious and enduring. Smith claimed that on his 12th birthday, his father gave him a set of blacksmith equipment and told him to turn lead into gold. Smith did even better: With his Anthology of American Folk Music, he took an old, disappearing music and gave it new life. If that isn't magic, what is?
Album: Better Living Through Chemistry
Artist: Fatboy Slim.
Reviewed By: NATHAN BRACKETT
ASK ANY WEDDING DJ:
People aren't very adventurous when they want to dance. It's nice to talk about some electronic music future, but Aphex Twin clears most dance floors faster than you can say, "Heck no to techno."
For his part, Fatboy Slim - a k a Norman Cook, a British DJ and producer who was the bassist for the '80s pop band Housemartins and the man behind dub-rap-dance outfit Beats International - just wants to move the crowd. To achieve that goal, in Better Living Through Chemistry he's made one of the most fun, shamelessly genre-hopping dance albums of the year.
Better Living Through Chemistry is a combination of go-for-the-gut break beats, good-time house grooves and anything else that might prod a party into a frenzy: Who riffs, Beastie Boys references, squealing synths, dead-funky cowbells that recall War at their peak - about the only thing missing on Chemistry is a sample of"Louie Louie" (Fatboy has already used that, on an old remix).
His stock in trade is that dance-club standby, the slow-building house crescendo. Such songs as "Give the Po' Man a Break" and "Punk to Funk" swell to an inevitable climax but also display a smart twist or two. On "Give the Po' Man a Break," the title phrase is chopped up and repeated maniacally over a ferocious beat as queasy turntable scratches push the song to its apex. A nifty battery of marching-band drums hustles "First Down" forward, boosted by a well-worn clubland keyboard riff - throughout, Fatboy Slim walks a careful line between the new and the familiar.
Sometimes, Fatboy tries too hard to be liked. "Going Out of My Head," the album's first single, strays into novelty. After a dramatic pause, the opening riff from the Who's "I Can't Explain" plunges comically into the mix (you can almost see the light bulb appear above some music executive's head: "Techno for rockers!"). Similarly, the polka-ish synth noodling on "The Sound of Milwaukee" succeeds in getting your attention - and then becomes downright annoying.
But most of Better Living Through Chemistry is a populist, highly danceable mix of '80s hip-hop, house and techno. And if we can forgive Run-DMC for "Walk This Way," we can pardon Fatboy Slim for his goofy excesses. Let's hear it for giving the people what they want. 
Album: Sweet 75
Artist: Krist Novoselic and Yva Las Vegas.
Reviewed By: EVELYN MCDONNELL
KRIST NOVOSELIC WAS CLEARLY anxious to not repeat himself. He waited three years to form a post-Nirvana band, and then for a collaborator he chose Yva Las Vegas, a Seattle street singer known for her Venezuelan folk songs. Still, Kurt Cobain's ghost inevitably hovers over Sweet 75 (a name borrowed from the poet Theodore Roethke): When Las Vegas and Novoselic try to get angstily anthemic ("Lay Me Down" and "Take Another Stab"), she trips over those large Converses lashed around her feet.
Big rock songs with bruise-violet lyrics account for the majority of the tracks on Sweet 75. Las Vegas doesn't have Cobain's gift for memorable melodies or clever rhymes, and her voice is monotonous in its Janis Joplin-esque urgency. She does make a claim for her own fame on a few tracks. "Dogs" offers a humorous portrait of being stuck in a car with a pompous boyfriend "All the things that come out of your mouth are instructions for me to follow" - but the band and producer Paul Fox have a guilty relationship with hooks: They know they need them, but they seem afraid to hang anything as meaningful as a statement on one. On "Dogs," the chorus is destroyed by a too-bright horn section. Tellingly, the catchiest song on the album is a novelty number, the country wanna-be "Ode to Dolly."
Novoselic plays electric r2-string guitar as well as bass, but the sound is basic airplay-hungry alt rock. The two Latin songs, as well as the horns on a couple of tracks, show Novoselic trying to break out of that ghetto. But with the exception of the lovely "Cantos de Pilon" (featuring R.E.M.'s Peter Buck on mandolin), these are tourists' versions of cultural exchange - a grunge gringo blessing us with his multiculturalism.
Album: Buena Vista Social Club
Artist: Ry Cooder.
Reviewed By: TOM MOON
IT MAKES SOME KIND OF COSMIC sense that Ry Cooder - a slide guitarist whose collaborations with Indian classical musicians and Tex-Mex stars have yielded recordings of rare and unconventional beauty - would wind up in Cuba. The island is one of those places where there are few barriers between high and mass culture, and folklore isn't something that gathers dust in museums. For a category-basher like Cooder, it's almost heaven: Hip-hop kids know the words and music of Beny More, the prototypical Cuban singer of the '5os; the decades-old pulses of rumba and son turn up in current radio hits.
On Buena Vista Social Club, Cooder was looking for the old stuff - storysongs handed down through generations, rhythms and melodies that were popular before the revolution became a glimmer in young Fidel Castro's eye. Aiming for the front-porchcasual feeling of traditional Cuban sextets, Cooder gathered a group of active and semiretired artists, including magical vocalists Compay Segundo and Ibrahim Ferrer, to revisit the lovelorn ballads, patriotic hymns and gentle son-based dance numbers heard in swank Havana lounges as far back as the 1920s.
Though the musicians honor the general outlines of these compositions, Cooder can't resist the impulse to stretch the traditional-folk-song settings. His curiosity is a two-edged sword: Sometimes, like on the stately "Chan Chan," his moaning, pitchbending lead lines enhance the bittersweet feeling of the melody. Other times, particularly on "Orgullecida," the Western swing-guitar ad-libs become intrusions, dispatches from a more cluttered (and cynical) age that distract from the world-weary testimony of the singers. But Cooder never tramples the songs. He knows that his guitar embellishments can't do much to improve these wistful melodies, enduring reminders that in Cuba, the wisdom of the ages still counts for something.
Album: The Pick, the Sickle and the Shovel
Artist: Gravediggaz.
Reviewed By: S.H. FERNANDO JR.
WHEN THE GRAVEDIGGAZ emerged from hip-hop's crypt three years ago, they were credited with ushering in a new wave of scary rap known as horrorcore. Thankfully, the group has survived that shortlived trend, which generated more schlock than shock. On the Gravediggaz's second album, The Pick, the Sickle and the Shovel, Poetic, Frukwan, Prince Paul (of De La Soul fame) and RZA (of Wu-Tang Clan) emphasize insight rather than fright.
Joining them is a slew of Wu-Tang Clan associates, who help take this album to the next level - rappers such as Killah Priest, Hell Razor, Omen and 9th Prince show off their verbal dexterity with cryptic, often apocalyptic, verses. You can see they've had a good example in RZA, who continues to shine on the mike. In "Twelve Jewelz," he gets scientific: "Solid, liquid and gases that cause the land masses/And its space catalyst all matter that exist/It is dense third dimension/Must be observed through physical comprehension." You'll need the lyric sheets to appreciate everything that's going on here.
Producers Poetic, Fourth Disciple, True Master and newcomers Goldfinghaz and Darkim create an exotic, multilayered soundscape that is often melancholic, but also melodic. Surprisingly, RZA's sole contribution as a producer, "What's Goin' On," pales in comparison; another disappointment on The Pick, the Sickle and the Shovel is Prince Paul's low profile. Nonetheless, with their new album the Gravediggaz deliver plenty to sink your pick into.
Album: Under the Covers
Artist: Dwight Yoakam.
Reviewed By: MARK KEMP
FILE UNDER "BRILLIANT DISASters." Dwight Yoakam, streetwise countripolitan crooner, attempts to do what David Bowie, one-time Spider from Mars, did on his own brilliant disaster, Pin Ups. Like that I973 oddity, Under the Covers is a collection of wildly divergent, idiosyncratic interpretations of some old chestnuts. The result - which is par for the course on albums like this - is that about half the songs kick butt and the other half are absolute stinkers.
Let's begin with the butt kickers. Yoakam comes out from Under the Covers with a faithful, gritty rendition of Roy Orbison's "Claudette" that succeeds because the singer puts something of himself into the song, substituting his own edgy, high-lonesome twang for Orbison's flawless croon. Yoakam's interpretation of the Clash's "Train in Vain" replaces that band's punk-funk drive with a jaunty bluegrass hoedown that, amazingly, works. So does his campy duet with Sheryl Crow on Sonny and Cher's "Baby Don't Go"; his rugged, chugging cover of Johnny Horton's truckers' anthem "North to Alaska"; and the album's "hidden track," a cool, spare reading of Jimmie Rodgers' "T for Texas."
In between those songs, Yoakam's ambition goes hog wild. For instance, what could be more inappropriate than a Sinatra-esque big-band interpretation of the Kinks"' "Tired of Waiting for You"? And why Yoakam would follow Bowie's wonderfully overblown Pin Ups version of Them's "Here Comes the Night" with a discombobulated, reggaefied rendition is a total mystery. He also tosses off a pedestrian, bar-band cover of the Stones' "The Last Time" and slaughters the Beatles' "Things We Said Today" with a tediously slick, contempo-rock production that sucks the life out of the song.
The dilemma for artists on projects such as this one is whether to go completely over the top throughout (as Bowie did on Pin Ups) or remain relatively faithful to the originals (as Bob Dylan did on his Good As I Been to You and World Gone Wrong). It's a mighty thin line to walk; if Yoakam were doing a drunk-driving test, he'd be in the jail house now.
Album: Welcome to Fantasy Island
Artist: Adina Howard.
Reviewed By: JILL HAMILTON
CANDLELIGHT, MUSIC AND 69 ways to take you there," purrs Adina Howard on the sultry opening track of Welcome to Fantasy Island. On her second record, Howard still has an appetite for seduction.
Howard's debut, Do You Wanna Ride?, scored a hit with the are-youfreaky-enough-to-be-my-man single, "Freak Like Me." This time she stays the course, most notably with the funky single "(Freak) And U Know It." And if that doesn't do the job, there's a backup freak song, the coolly sexy "Personal Freak," with Bone Thugs-n-Harmony's Bizzy Bone.
Howard's boudoir-ready songs, such as the smoothly erotic "All About U" and the Vanity 6-esque "Don't Come Too Fast" (yes, it means what you think it does), are slicker now. The standout tracks are the graceful "Take Me Home," where she shows an offhand command of her surprisingly elegant voice, and "Could've Got Away," which makes excellent use of a P-Funk All-Stars sample.
Her collaborations are less fun. A duet with Jodeci's K-Ci Hailey on the breakup song "I'll Be Damned if I Apologize" is just lackluster. And perhaps the year's most unintentionally silly chorus is in the Jamie Foxxpenned "T-Shirt and Panties": "I've got my T-shirt and my panties on" (repeat lo times). At one point, the "Tshirt/panties" business is sung through a robotic-sounding voice box, bringing unbidden images of a randy C-3PO. But Welcome to Fantasy Island is a make-out record - if a date puts it on, beware - and as that, it does the job. 
Album: Those Were the Days
Artist: Cream.
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: Mark Coleman
PERCEPTION: groundbreaking power trio that specialized in mind-numbingly dull blues jams. REALITY: Virtuosos Eric Clapton, Jack Bruce and Ginger Baker were capable of hard-driving discipline as well as discursive solos. This box wisely divides original albums into studio sides (two discs) and live cuts (two discs). On the former, Cream pump out taut psychedelia ("White Room," "Tales of Brave Ulysses"), crystalline pop ("I Feel Free," "Badge") and crunching hard-rock hooks ("Sunshine of Your Love"). Onstage, showboating is kept to a surprising minimum until "Spoonful" (16:39) and "Toad" (17:35). Consider yourself lucky at that: Those Fillmore audiences didn't have the luxury of a "skip" button.
Album: Hawaii 
Artist: THE HIGH LLAMAS
Record Label: Alpaca Park/V2
Reviewed By Dave DiMartino
THE LATEST ALBUM BY ENGland's High Llamas - finally released here - is guaranteed to elicit open-mouthed astonishment from Brian Wilson fans who thought they had heard every Smile bootleg ever made. Lead Llama Sean O'Hagan (whose '80s band Microdisney sounded nothing like this) has created the strangest tribute album this side of Beatlemania.
A gorgeous slab of symphonic pop lasting 77 minutes and featuring 29 tracks - plus a six-track bonus CD Hawaii is awash with texture: a banjo here, a repetitive organ chord there, dryly recorded vocal choruses fading in and out, and, only occasionally, full songs. Most of those - such as "Nomads" and "The Hot Revivalist" - are pleasant enough, but what ultimately catches the ear are O'Hagan's arrangements; as with Wilson's before him, it is the unexpected sound - the horn blasts, the sudden percussive snap that gives O'Hagan's music its life. Still, there is a major and obvious difference: Brian Wilson knew how to write pop singles, and there isn't one track on Hawaii that is, or would have ever been, a hit record. The album is ear candy - divinely played, extremely pleasant going down - but, that said, oddly forgettable.
"Let's rebuild the past/'Cause the future won't last," O'Hagan sings in "The Hot Revivalist," and that sentiment is as integral a part of Hawaii as the recurring melodies populating it. It's easy to fall in love with the High Llamas' music, easy to marvel at the craft behind its design - but in the end, it's difficult to believe the music is offering us anything new or of lasting value. Is it coincidence that the Beach Boys song most consistently evoked by Hawaii is the one called "Passing By"? God only knows.
Artist: The Isley Brothers
Album: Get Into Something
Album: The Brothers: Isley
Album: Givin' It Back
Album: Brother, Brother, Brother
Record Label: Legacy/Epic 
Reviewed By: Mark Coleman
THE ISLEY BROTHERS turn-of-the-'70s catalogue on Legacy/Epic PERCEPTION: bell-bottomed soulmen with a penchant for gushy ballads and Jimi Hendrix rip-offs. REALITY: This long-running family band effortlessly blended funk and rock years before it was fashionable. Get Into Something balances fidgety, syncopated riffs (somebody should sample that title cut) with true-believer gospel harmonies. The Brothers: Isley gets the juices flowing with earthy, salacious jams such as "Black Berries" and "Vacuum Cleaner." Givin 'It Back features boldly transformed cover versions, both obvious ("Spill the Wine," "Machine Gun") and not ("Fire and Rain," "Lay Lady Lay"). Finally, Brother, Brother, Brother is their subtly assured tour de force, where finger-popping grit ("Lay Away," "Work to Do") coexists with sweetly seductive pleading ("Love Put Me on the Corner"). Rather than sweating a crossover, the Isleys decided to "Pop That Thang" and let the mainstream catch up with them. Better late than never…
Album: Midnite Lover
Artist: Shaggy.
Reviewed By: BARNEY HOSKYNS
WHEN SHAGGY HAD A GLOBAL smash with his irresistible version of the Folkes Brothers' "Oh Carolina," in 1993, and followed it up with the U.S. hit "Boombastic," in 1995, he carved a role for himself as dance-hall reggae's genial ambassador. Four years later, the former Orville Richard Burrell - an ex-Marine who hails from Kingston, Jamaica, via Brooklyn, NY. - is back with another friendly, all-things-to-all-people album.
The superbad, Stagger Lee-innaTrenchtown machismo of the Buju Bantons and the Bounty Killers is of no interest to the Shagster. He may share a clowning baritone-rap style with these dance-hall dons, but his self-appointed "Mission" (as one of Midnite Lover's tracks is called) is to "see nothing but a smiling face." Even the raucous "Sexy Body Girls" takes an essentially polite approach to female pulchritude. Percy Sledge's quaint ballad "Warm and Tender Love" may seem an odd choice for a cover, but it sums up the sort of romance that Shaggy is offering.
Throughout Midnite Lover, Shaggy achieves an entertaining balance between soulful fun and dance-hall swagger. The Berns-Ragovoy tearwringer "Piece of My Heart" - a Top lo hit in Britain - is reworked as a soul duet with neophyte singer Marsha and works even though the lass in question can't hold a candle to Erma Franklin. The cautionary "John Doe" and the title track are closer to P-Funk in feel, and "Way Back Home" is vintage rock-steady fused with the '60s beach soul of the Tams. The closing treatment of Bob Marley's "Thank You, Lord" features Ky-mani Marley sounding even more like Bob than Ziggy does.
Shaggy clearly cares not a jot for credibility, nor does he pretend to be a hard man. In "Think Ah So It Go," there's a riposte to the detractors who call him "brown and uptown" (as opposed to black and downtown), but one suspects that he could care less what the Bounty Killers of the world think of him. Watch him go global all over again.
Album: Honorary Citizen
Artist: Peter Tosh
Record Label: Legacy/Columbia
Reviewed By: Mark Coleman
PERCEPTION: ganja-hazed soundtrack for a'70s frat party. REALITY: This three-CD box rehabilitates the former Wailers' rep with rare Jamaican singles, American album cuts - including a cover of the Temptations' "(You Got to Walk and) Don't Look Back," his hit duet with Mick Jagger - and fiery early'80s live tracks. Between his preachy baritone voice and his fiercely politicized lyrics, the late Peter Tosh emerges as one of reggae's most authoritative figures. And if you substitute blunts for spliffs, pot anthems like "Legalize It" sound more timely than ever.
Artist: Yoko Ono 
Record Label: Rykodisc 
Album: Two Virgins
Album: Life With the Lions
Album: Wedding Album
Album: Approximately Infinite Universe
Album: Feeling the Space
Album: Fly
Album: A Story
Reviewed By: Mark Coleman
PERCEPTION: banshee-wailing performance artist guaranteed to clear any room and rile every dog on the block. REALITY: Ono's amazingly varied output prefigures everything from Sonic Youth to Alanis Morissette: Far from unlistenable, it's impossible to ignore. True, the early "experimental" outings (Two Virgins, Life With the Lions, Wedding Album) will be tough sledding for anyone but noise mavens and Beatlemaniacs (some unreleased Lennonalia is included). Beginning with Yoko's Plastic Ono Band, however, recognizable sounds and sentiments emerge amid the passionate outpourings. Fly stomps and shimmies like a blues album run through a trash compactor - Lennon's slide guitar work is wicked. Approximately Infinite Universe pairs Yoko with radical rockers Elephant's Memory, while Feeling the Space utilizes sleek studio musicians in odd couplings. A Story, unreleased at the time, documents Ono's reactions to her husband's "lost weekend." In the process of cleansing her soul and amplifying her angst, Yoko Ono also reveals her ample heart and mind.
Album: Boom! Boom! Boom!
Artist: Kelley Deal 6000.
Reviewed By: LORRAINE ALi
FIVE YEARS AFTER SHE DEBUTED as the guitarist for her sister Kim Deal's band, the Breeders, Kelley Deal has made a fun and arty fuck-about of a solo album. Boom! Boom! Boom! is a melee of styles and sounds, with Deal leading the circus: She lets out adolescent shouts over obnoxious, power-punk blasts like "Shag," delivers scratchy-sexy whispers in surreal and moody numbers like "Skylark," and is even able to tap a down-'n'-out nerve in the spare country tune "When He Calls Me Kitten."
There's a lot of sonic debris here, too: bratty Mouseketeer-like cheers, hokey ditties such as "Stripper" and arbitrary instrumentation like military snare drums and penny whistles. But Boom! is Deal's playground and workshop - you've got to sift through her eccentric mess to get to the true nuggets of inspiration. Ultimately, it's worth the work.
Album: Coldharbour Rocks
Artist: Headrillaz
Reviewed By: MICHAEL AZERRAD
LONDON'S HEADRILLAZ HAVE jumped on the above-ground techno bandwagon, adorning their hectic, danceable electro-throb with bass and guitars, then synthesizing it almost beyond recognition. The result is a lorryload of speaker-flexing timbres that are the music's real hooks (a good thing, since there are no actual tunes here). Unfortunately, the generic dance-floor hardness of tracks like "Screaming Headz" overshadows the joyous innovation that distinguishes other "big beat" music. Coldharbour Rocks makes for solid party fodder, but it's hardly the sonic trepanation that the band's name promises.
Album: Dreams of Freedom: Ambient Translations of Bob Marley in Dub
Artist: Bob Marley.
Reviewed By: DEV SHERLOCK
BOB MARLEY'S SONGS ARE SACRED texts to reggae fans - a fact that would make most artists think twice before messing with them. Enter producer and remixer Bill Laswell, who on Dreams of Freedom has remixed II Marley classics in the traditional dub style: Marley's lead vocals have been stripped away - relegated to floating alongside the I-Threes as part of the backing vocals - and the instrumental tracks have been turned into spacious, echoey affairs. Laswell leaves intact the wicked rhythm section of brothers Carlton and Aston "Family Man" Barrett, though, and adds only a few ambient sounds to his skanking remixes of songs such as "Rebel Music" and "Waiting In Vain." The result? Dreams of Freedom offers a fresh perspective on this familiar material while retaining the pulse and the spirit of Marley's music.
Album: Full Blown Possession
Artist: The Grifters
Reviewed By: NATASHA STOVALL
IF THE MELANCHOLY SPIRIT OF the Grifters' new album, Full Blown Possession, was personified, it would be a guy shuffling, head down, through life ("Happy"), picking his emotional scabs ("Blood Thirsty Lovers") and looking up only for a stiff drink and a red-haired woman ("Cigarette"). On Possession, the Memphis, Tenn., indie rockers three guitars and the assorted Moog, Mellotron and organ create a neopsychedelic ocean fed by rivers of blue-eyed funk, classic trash rock and postmodern blues. "Sweetest Thing" encompasses a lot of that, pairing a mournful guitar and harmonica duet with industrial guitar and baroque clavinet for a lament that verges on dirge. And when a heartbroken Scott Taylor recalls a lost love, moaning, "That's the sweetest thing I ever heard," it's clear why the Grifters keep their heads down.
Album: Made From Technetium
Artist: Man or Astro-Man?.
Reviewed By: ROB O'CONNOR
IT LOOKS LIKE A COLLECTION OF just about every variety of shape, angularity and granularity, about every variety of rock you could find," says an anonymous voice near the end of the latest album from Alabama's Man or Astro-Man? That's what you call truth in advertising: Just as the Cramps whipped up rockabilly with B-movie iconography, Man or Astro-Man? take all sorts of surf instrumentals, '60s garage rock, screwball science fiction and film-dialogue clips, and send them through enough feedback and guitar distortion to create their own monster. For the most part, Made From Technetium continues the Man or AstroMan? tradition of making dexterous instrumental music for the Space Age. "Muzak for Cybernetics" puts an airraid siren over a pummeling beat, while "Weightless at Zero Return" sounds like the Batman theme lifted into orbit. Technetium's biggest surprise is "Lo Batt," a churning punkrock tune with actual vocals. The rest is typical Man or Astro-Man? fare which is still plenty out-there for us earthlings.
Album: Modus Operandi
Artist: Photek.
Reviewed By: JOSH KUN
THE U.K. JUNGLE SCENE HAS spawned a number of distinctive personalities, but few have a sound as immediately recognizable as that of Rupert Parkes, aka Photek. A connoisseur of metallic, percussive minimalism, Parkes arranges break beats like a bop drummer gone drum and bass, jaggedly compressing tempos and textures into cold, precise and sharply angular urban landscapes. On his full-length debut, Modus Operandi, Parkes maneuvers his trademark dueling drum patterns around discharging shotgun shells, hissing steam and muffled echoes of clanging steel. Modus takes its most innovative turns with the futuristic synth noodling of "Aleph I" and the crashing cymbals and looped jazz breaks of "KJZ," when Parkes deftly translates '70s jazz fusion and '80s Detroit techno into a blueprint for a new, more expansive drum-and-bass architecture.
Album: Official Live: 101 Proof
Artist: Pantera.
Reviewed By: JON WIEDERHORN
FEW THRASH-METAL BANDS PROvoke a crowd into frothing fits of rage as effectively as Pantera. The group's first live album, Official Live: or Proof, captures the sonic assault that sparks such hysteria. Militaristic beats, jagged riffs and tortured guitar squalls are intertwined with Phil Anselmo's rabid-drill-sergeant vocals, which can build from a staccato bark to an elongated roar. Song tempos alternate between a goose-step march ("Walk," "Becoming") and a full-tilt sprint ("Strength Beyond Strength," "Fucking Hostile"), and even the slowest tracks broil with tightfisted fury. Throughout Official Live, Pantera's followers roar with approval as their messiah spews bits of betweensong wisdom like, "May you get high, may you drop acid, may you get laid and all that good shit!" For those who survive the 14 live tracks, the band draws fresh blood on Official Live: 101 Proof with two new studio cuts. Drink up!