Artist: Tanya Donelly
Album: Lovesongs for Underdogs
Reviewed By: Neva Chonin
TANYA DONELLY'S GREATEST ASset has also been her Achilles' heel: She's so smooth, she breeds indifference. After leaving Throwing Muses (and, subsequently, the Breeders) to form Belly, Donelly turned out two albums of impeccable alterna-pop that was as slick as it was forgettable.
As Lovesongs for Underdogs' title suggests, Donelly's first solo album (Belly broke up in 1996) finds the songwriter/ guitarist in a reflective, almost self-deprecating, state of mind. During the course of 12 tracks, she balances her usual insouciance with more ambitious, creatively orchestrated songwriting. To help her, Donelly has rounded up some accomplished collaborators: multi-instrumentalist Rich Gilbert, former Juliana Hatfield bassist (and current Donelly husband) Dean Fisher and three drummers: ex-Pixie David Lovering, Throwing Muses' David Narcizo and Veruca Sak's Stacey Jones.
This album also marks the first time that Donelly has ventured into rugged emotional terrain. "Mysteries of the Unexplained" and "Manna" drip with mournful harmonies and shimmering strings; on the acoustic "Acrobat," she bemoans psychic isolation ("You'd have to be an acrobat to touch her") while a muffled piano plays counterpoint.
Lovesongs is not a breakthrough album. Donelly has a ways to go before she can deliver lines like "I've suffered all the slings and arrows/I know where it hurts" ("Landspeed Song") with the ragged worldliness they deserve; as it is, she manages only to sound spunky. Still, a flawed venture is more interesting than prepackaged perfection, and Donelly is beginning to unravel quite nicelyBe Here Now
Artist: OASIS
Album: Be Here Now
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: David Fricke
IF THE ART OF ROCK - AND of making great rock records - is essentially a matter of putting the right notes in the right order over a good beat at top volume, then "D'You Know What I Mean?," Oasis' opening broadside on Be Here Now, is seven minutes of simple, focused genius. The important stuff is all here: the squealing feedback, chain-saw distortion and coughing wah-wah of a huge, brutish guitar orchestra; a slow, tough rhythm, stoked for extra measure by a drum sample from N.W.A's Straight Outta Compton; a singer who ratchets up the cocksure posturing of the lyrics ("All my people right here, right now/They know what I mean") with a sour howl and arrogant relish; a big finish in which everything in the mix - the guitars, the braying vocals, the fat whack of the rhythm section - is sucked into the jet-engine roar of the distended chorus.
There are references to God in the lyrics, and the song appears to be about a crisis of faith. But you wouldn't know it from the attitude pouring through the amps. "D'You Know What I Mean?" - and for that matter the rest of Be Here Now - is music built for impact, not explanation. You want epic narrative, grand metaphor and explicit spiritual testimony? Get a book of poetry - or a Van Morrison record.
Oasis are not, and have never been, a complex listening experience; in fact, they've basically made the same album thrice. Like 1994's Definitely Maybe and I995's (What's the Story) Morning Glory?, Be Here Now is '60s and '70s rock classicism writ large and loud, all broad strokes and bullish enthusiasm. As the band's songwriter, co-producer and (for all intents and purposes) iron ruler, guitarist Noel Gallagher doesn't spend any sweat on highbrow drama or intellectual pretense. He fires up sing-along hooks with industrialstrength glam-rock licks; he drapes his words and music in the reflected splendor of the Beatles at every available turn, mostly through song- and album-title references, and spit-shines the results with a kind of roughneck sentimentality, heard to most obvious effect in the Sunday-night-pub-chorale endings of "Magic Pie" and "All Around the World."
It's a formula that can go either way: brilliant, steel-plated consistency or vacuous, shopworn predictability. Gallagher and Oasis pull it off, in great part, because they do not concede any possibility of fucking up. A lot of Gallagher's lyrics are catchphrase cocktails of youthful optimism and hard-boy temperament: "Comin' in out of nowhere/Singing rhapsody" ("Fade In-Out"); "Into my big mouth/You could fly a plane" ("My Big Mouth"). But the most contagious thing about buzz bombs like "My Big Mouth," "I Hope, I Think, I Know" and "It's Gettin' Better (Man!!)" is the sheer physical confidence of the music, particularly in the tandem rockribbed guitars of Gallagher and Bonehead (a k a Paul Arthurs), and the way singer Liam Gallagher literally assaults the songs written for him by his older brother.
Much has been made of the John Lennon factor in Liam's nasally, brattish intonation. In fact, his voice is a flat, thin thing. What's remarkable about it is its emphatic, almost fighting quality; Liam enunciates Noel's lyrics with snappish irritation and grinds the vowels in words like fade and away into high-tension whines. By the time Liam gets done with the chorus in Noel's Big Melodrama ballad, "Stand by Me" "Stand by me-e-e/Nobody kno-woaahs/The way it's gon-nah-h be-e-e" - it sounds full of portent, if not bona fide linear meaning.
The payoff in Noel's writing is always in the choruses; all riffs, hooks and bridges lead there. So Noel feeds Liam words and phrases that, above all, sound good. While it's hard to excuse jury-rigged verse like "A cold and frosty morning/There's not a lot to say/About the things caught in my mind" ("Don't Go Away"), sometimes in pop music, melody, muscle and mouthing off can be their own substantial reward.
But only for so long. Oasis can't rely on this Abbey Road-meets-Never Mind the Bollocks routine forever. There are already signs of strain on Be Here Now. "Stand by Me" is a little too close to Morning Glory's "Don't Look Back in Anger" for coincidence, and there is an overreliance on swollen "Hey Jude"-style finales in the ballads.
Which brings up the Beatles issue. Noel Gallagher's love of the group is genuine. "Sing a song for me/One from Let It Be," he writes in "Be Here Now" - a title cribbed from Lennon's infamous quip to an interviewer who asked him about the deep, underlying philosophy of rock & roll. But Noel is starting to overplay his hand; dropping a line like "The fool on the hill and I feel fine" in the middle of "D'You Know What I Mean?" smacks of laziness more than fannish ardor.
Maybe if Oasis weren't so ultramega-huge in England and smiled more onstage when they came here, it would be easier to accept them for what they are: a great pop band with a long memory. What will they, or their records, mean in 20 years' time? Who cares? Be here now. History will take care of itself.
Artist: PUFF DADDY AND THE FAMILY 
Album: No Way Out 
Record Label: Bad Boy/Arista 
Reviewed By: NATHAN BRACKETT
AS AN A&R MAN, PRODUCER and CEO of Bad Boy Entertainment, Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs has helped define hip-hop culture in the 1990s. The problem is, now he wants to be a rap star. He should know better.
On his debut as a rapper, No Way Out, Combs is joined on four tracks by the late Notorious B.I.G. It's a pairing that underlines all of Puffy's shortcomings as an MC. B. I. G.'s rhymes are dynamic, authoritative; Puff Daddy's voice is thin, and he delivers his verses in a flat monotone.
Fortunately, the same cameos by Puffy proteges that make him look so bad on No Way Out also make it a half-decent album. "Been Around the World" features an MC Hammer-size chunk of David Bowie's "Let's Dance," but Biggie's mack-daddy chorus almost saves the song. Lil' Kim similarly -and mercifully - steals the scene on "Don't Stop What You're Doing."
Combs deserves credit for his skills as a pop impresario. Thanks to his handpicked battery of producers, No Way Out is full of catchy pop-rap choruses, and the first five tracks have a surging momentum. Still, there's a difference between tappers who make something new out of the music they sample and artists who merely bask in the reflected glory of the songs from which they draw. Combs - though he credits every songwriter he borrows from - is in the latter group. At his worst, he uses material that was cheesy to begin with: "Do You Know?" lifts from the Diana Ross AM-radio staple "Theme From Mahogany." (What's next -"Seasons in the Sun"?)
The sad subtext of No Way Out is the shooting of the Notorious B.I.G. Combs addresses the loss of his friend on tracks such as "I'll Be Missing You" and "Pain"; on the latter he talks about quitting the music biz, until a vision of B.I.G. appears and tells him to carry on. But Puffy's predicament is more complicated than that. On "What You Gonna Do?" - recorded before B.I.G.'s death Combs describes a confrontation with some gang-bangers, and rhymes, "What you gonna do when it's your turn to go? .../You gonna cry like a bitch or take it nice and slow?" It's a tough-guy sentiment that sits uneasily next to his disgust at the loss of his friend. Does carting on mean playing along with a gangsta world that has caused him so much grief? And does it mean carrying on as a rapper, when his talents so obviously lie elsewhere? Let's hope not.
Artist: Various
Album: The Songs of Jimmie Rodgers: A Tribute
Record Label:
Reviewed By: PARKE PUTERBAUGH
JIMMIE RODGERS MAKES AN IDEAL folk icon for these troubled times. His brief Depression-era career, cut short by a fatal case of tuberculosis, blurred racial divisions by drawing from white country and black blues traditions. In a world of greedy haves and struggling have-nots (so what's new?), Rodgers - a railroad worker known as the Singing Brakeman championed the common man. Against a backdrop of rapid economic and technological change (so what's new?), he focused with humanity on colorful characters who lived with bravado and self-reliance.
With The Songs of Jimmie Rodgers: A Tribute, Bob Dylan salutes the work of Rodgers while making some dyspeptic points about the modern world: To wit, we live in a country shorn of conviction and substance, and breached from the necessary lessons and worthy lives of its past. The multi-artist tribute, assembled by Dylan and including his labored rasp (on "Sweet Liza Jane"), is offered as a kind of corrective. "We don't salute ourselves in making this record," he writes in the liner notes, "but we point you back there so you can feel it for yourself and see how far off the path we've come." The result is a feast for the ears.
Much of The Songs of Jimmie Rodgers is as effortless and natural as ripe fruit falling off a tree. Bono, one of the youngest bloods in this bevy, delivers a guileless "Dreaming With Tears in My Eyes," and the lack of his recent ironic context and electronic trappings is welcome. Dickey Betts' sweetly countrified "Waiting for a Train" makes Rodgers seem the obvious prototype for the Allman Brothers Band's "Ramblin' Man." John Mellencamp's gruffly sung "Gambling Bar Room Blues" brings to life a character as irascible and engaging as the singer himself.
The match of artists and songs is wellnigh perfect. Willie Nelson sings "Peach Pickin' Time Down in Georgia" with a casual, back-porch elan, while Alison Krauss and Mary Chapin Carpenter fairly float over the lithe picking in their chosen numbers. An unrepentantly rowdy Steve Earle tackles "In the Jailhouse Now." Only Iris DeMent's "Hobo Bill's Last Ride," with its grating, affected hillbilly nasality, fails to charm. The inclusion of a younger alternative artist might have been nice - but, hey, this is a schooling by the elders of the clan.
P.S. to Deadheads: Jerry Garcia's last studio recording, a version of "Blue Yodel #9 (Standin' on the Corner)," with David Grisman and the late John Kahn, appears here. Although Garcia can barely exhale his yodelays, there's a weary nobility in his effort. Like Jimmie Rodgers, he remained a songster till his dying breath.
Album: The Art of War
Artist: BONE THUGS-N-HARMONY
Record Label: Ruthless/Relativity
Reviewed By: ED MORALES
BONE THUGS-N-HARMONY MADE their mark three years ago with the EP Creepin on Ah Come Up, a groundbreaking fusion of gangsta text and syrupy-sweet melodies. It was a strategy that propelled hardcore rap's reconciliation with R&B and re-established hip-hop's platinum potential. DJ Uneek's sleek team-up with the late N.W.A member Eazy-E gave Bone Thugs a lowriding Los Angeles sound, but the EP got its unique kick from the machine-gat-inflected hyper-raps of Layzie, Krayzie, Wish, Bizzy and Fleshn-Bone. In this summer's The Art of War - the follow-up to I995's multiplatinum album E. 1999 Eternal - their relentless rants are writ large: Following the Wu-Tang Clan double-album trend, it's a gangstravaganza of 28 tracks, clocking in at just above two hours..
Lusher in production and bursting with tight cipher trade-offs, The Art of War packs a blast of break beats and mo'-hardcore-than-thou soliloquies. Decked out in mystery-warrior garb on the sleeve, Bone Thugs preach tha criminal life as a necessary evil, a magic cloak of protection: "I know the shit was bad," says Wish Bone on "Family Tree," "but don't blame me, blame the thugster in me."
Predictably, there is a fair amount of filler. Program your CD player to skip to the soulful irony of the Al Greenish "It's All Real," the slinky loungehop of "It's All Mo' Thug" and the late Tupac Shakur's full-throated roar on the bullet-riddled "Thug Luv." Then proceed directly to Disc z's strong finale of cuts reinventing mid-'8os jams such as Whodini's "Friends" and Laid Back's "White Horse." Still, for those down enough to hunger for every syllable of Bone Thugs' gangsta-liberation theology, The Art of War is required reading.
Album: The Dance
Artist: Fleetwood Mac
Reviewed By: JANCEE DUNN
REMEMBER WHEN YOU BOUGHT Rumours and played it to death? Well, that was 20 years ago, my friend. Since then, the group's classic lineup Mick Fleetwood,John Mc Vie, Christine McVie, Stevie Nicks and Lindsey Buckingham - has withstood more breakups than Melrose Place, but 1997 marks the return of the Mac. In honor of Rumours' 20th anniversary comes The Dance, culled from three live performances on a Burbank, Calif., soundstage. It's a whopping 17 tracks (three fewer than Tusk!), including all the hits and four new songs.
Fleetwood Mac deliver the old tunes here with note-perfect skill and obvious enthusiasm. The voices are a bit weathered, but few bands harmonize as beautifully. Nicks avoids the high notes on "Landslide," but a few decades' perspective adds a world-weary dimension to lines like "Can I face the seasons of my life?/I don't know." The Mac don't tinker much with the hits, although Christine McVie's "Everywhere" has a salsafied, everybody-onto-the-lidodeck feel, and Buckingham turns in a stark, flamenco-laced "Big Love."
The new songs blend in seamlessly, sounding at once like familiar old pals. "Bleed to Love Her," via Buckingham, is a folky, gentle, early-Sunday-morn tune, while his jaunty "My Little Demon" sounds like "I Don't Want to Know" on speed. The best track is "Silver Springs," a lovelorn song that Nicks wrote 20 years ago. She's at her contemplative-gypsy best, and it's an instant Mac classic. Her new "Sweet Girl" is an Allman-esque Southern-rock ramble. Finally, there's Christine McVie's "Temporary One," a bouncy, we'llmeet-again ditty. "The sea that divides us is a temporary one," she sings, "and the bridge will bring us back together." Sounds like the theme song for a certain inveterate group.
Album: Vegas
Artist: The Crystal Method
Reviewed By: KURT B. REIGHLEY
ONE DOWNSIDE OF THE HOOPLA surrounding electronica is the decidedly Eurocentric slant in the mainstream media coverage; despite a legion of native innovators, American judges keep awarding the laurels to Brits and Germans. Since 1994's "Now Is the Time," the Los Angeles team Crystal Method - Ken Jordan and Scott Kirkland - has been unleashing exceptional home-grown beats. Now, with a majorlabel deal and a music biz that's finally gotten over its "disco sucks" sour grapes, the duo is poised as the United States' Great White Hope in the techno sweepstakes with its first full-length outing.
Vegas (named after Jordan and Kirkland's hometown) includes the club hits "Busy Child," which bustles with threesnaps exhortations to "get busy, child," and the anthemic "Keep Hope Alive," a celebration of the glory days of the Los Angeles rave scene. But the duo also loves to rock. Much like the music of their U.K. peers the Chemical Brothers (who made "Keep Hope Alive" a staple of their DJ sets), the Crystal Method aren't averse to occasionally fusing good old-fashioned guitar licks to their dense mix of funky breaks, distorted beats and escalating keyboard swells.
The album kicks off with "Trip Like I Do," a slow burner that shows off the Method's stylistic versatility. Kirkland and Jordan understand how to construct cuts with the peaks and valleys necessary to keep the dance floor in motion, but they pack them with enough melodic hooks, plus engaging samples and timbres, to withstand repeated listens. Even at their most propulsive, the Crystal Method create dance music that on closer inspection actually improves; the moody "High Roller," peppered with NASA prattle and sealed with a blissful ambient coda, proves especially seductive. The lackluster "Comin' Back" and "Jaded" aside, Vegas makes an exemplary debut. Buy American.
Album: All the King's Men
Artist: Scotty Moore and D. J. Fontana
Reviewed By: DON MCLEESE
THE SPIRIT IS WILLING, EVEN when the material is weak. This transgenerational tribute to a pair of Elvis Presley's legendary Sun Records sidemen finds guitarist Scotty Moore and drummer DJ. Fontana in sprightly form on songs that evoke rock & roll's good-time era. On All the King's Men's standout opening track, Keith Richards trades licks with Moore and verses with the Band's Levon Helm on the Chuck Berry-esque romp "Deuce and a Quarter." The album closer reunites Ron Wood and Jeff Beck in heartfelt but lackluster hommage to "Unsung Heroes." In between, All the King's Men careers from the gorgeous balladry of the Mavericks to the gritty blues of Joe Louis Walker to the John Lennon-ish fever of Cheap Trick to the cloying sap of Ronnie McDowell. Throughout, Moore and Fontana continue to cut a rollicking groove after three decades away from the limelight, unifying this mixed bag of music.
Artist: Brian Eno
Album: The Drop
Reviewed By: JOSH KUN
ON HIS FIRST ALBUM IN THREE years, pioneering ambient architect Brian Eno unveils yet another brand of sonic manipulation, a type of music he vaguely labels "drop." Angular melodies, bent guitar notes, piano drizzles and manipulated effects make up The Drop's mixed bag of 17 minicompositions (most clocking in at under three minutes). As usual, Eno is more interested in introducing new musical equations than in actually solving them: He leaves behind the cinematic spaciousness that characterized much of his earlier ambient work and instead creates a series of musical interludes that sound as if they've been stripped of their original contexts fragmented webs that, strangely, end up connecting nothing.
Artist: Blue Mountain 
Album: Homegrown
Record Label: Roadrunner
Reviewed By: DON McLEESE
PUTTING A SOUTHERN SPIN ON the Bob Dylan/Neil Young axis, this homespun trio combines a sound rooted in its native Mississippi with a spirit of restless yearning that resists retro complacency. The results range from the feverishly bluesy, banjo-driven ramble of "Bloody 98" through the sexy romp of "Babe." "Generic America" would sound like a generic rant if it didn't rock with such conviction. It's the exception, though: The songs of frontman Cary Hudson more often avoid such big-picture moralizing and carefully render the small details instead. Particularly evocative is the acoustic "Pretty Please," where he sings of "hanging around for so long now, I'm the last leaf on the tree . . . searching the skies until my eyes begin to bleed." Throughout the album, the harmonies of bassist Laurie Stirratt blend bittersweetly with Hudson's reedier leads, making the music sound less like an alternative-country fashion statement and more like a lifeline.
Album: The Lateness of the Hour
Artist: Eric Matthews
Reviewed By: DAVID GREENBERGER
ERIC MATTHEWS SECOND ALBUM of pop lushness differs little from its predecessor, 1995's highly orchestrated It's Heavy in Here - standard guitar-bass-drums trappings are but foot soldiers amid platoons of horns and harpsichords, all of which must answer to that higher power: the carefully crafted song. Even Matthews' own soft, friendly voice is just another element in the big picture. The Lateness of the Hour is orchestral even when Matthews doesn't use an orchestra: On "Everything So Real," when the guitars sound like they're about to stampede, they're actually as controlled as a string section. And the piano, bass and spare percussion on "No Gnashing Teeth" serve an arrangement that would make Brian Wilson proud. But this is pop music for the rain and a fire rather than the beach.
Album: Moonflower Plastic (Welcome to My Wigwam)
Artist: Tobin Sprout
Record Label: Matador
Reviewed By: RODD McLEOD
BACK WHEN HE WAS A MEMBER of Guided by Voices, Tobin Sprout was often accused of playing an indie-pop George Harrison to GBV leader Robert Pollard's John Lennon. But on Moonflower Plastic (Welcome to My Wigwam), his second solo album, Sprout unleashes his inner McCartney. The 14 songs here, much like those on his 1996 LP, Carnival Boy, are driven by strummed guitars, wistful melodies, and stately minor-key chord changes. But this year, Sprout supports his sure-fire phrasing with plenty of Macca-esque pianos. When he gently wings his pretty tenor voice through the dreamy ballad "Angels Hang Their Socks on the Moon" or shouts the wordless chorus of "Exit Planes," the results practically demand that you sing along.
Album: Psycho's Path
Artist: John Lydon is reviewed.
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: MATT DIEHL
FINALLY, JOHN LYDON'S BACK ON dangerous ground. The erstwhile Sex Pistols/Public Image Limited provocateur's first-ever solo album features his most dissonant noises since PiL's 1981 Flowers of Romance. Songs like "Grave Ride" skitter over tribal electronics spiked with Eastern drones; the John Wayne Gacy-influenced "Psychopath," however, proves that Lydon's trademark misanthropy is still intact. Psycho's Path also finds Lydon, like everybody else, going techno for the '90s. For him it makes sense, though, as he's always been a dancemusic buff (an early PiL song wasn't called "Death Disco" for nothing). It's a gas to hear him out-Prodigy the Prodigy, snarling over grooves from electronica heavyweights such as Leftfield, the Chemical Brothers and Moby. 
Album: Supa Dupa Fly
Artist: Missy "Misdemeanor" Elliott
Reviewed By: LAURA JAMISON
WHEN MISSY "MISDEMEANOR" Elliott weds hip-hop and R&B, she not only avoids the pitfalls tripping up so many of her colleagues, she also finds new inspiration in the union. On her remarkable debut album, Supa Dupa Fly, the songwriterturned-artist raps, sings, writes and (along with her partner, Timbaland) produces. "The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)," her hit single, borrows a sample from Ann Peebles' '70s classic "I Can't Stand the Rain." Elliott sings the seductive hook herself, adding easy rhymes and hard-girl attitude; the result creeps and thunders just right, as do nearly all the tracks on the album. Supa Dupa Fly should be required listening for the growing number of artists looking for musical bliss in the marriage of rhymes with soul melodies.