Artist: Various Artists
Album: Spawn - The Album
Record Label: Immortal/Epic/Sony
Reviewed By: Michael Azerrad
FOR A LOT OF PEOPLE, there's nothing scarier than a microchip. Wariness of things like electronic surveillance, the Internet, food additives and genetic engineering have fueled a growing technophobia in our society. The Spawn soundtrack explicitly plays on this anxiety by pairing sardonic hardrock bands such as Metallica and Marilyn Manson with techno artists like Prodigy and Orbital.
What makes this collection an inspired idea is that combination: the pairing of heavy metal's fascination with deep-rooted technophobic dread and electronica's eagerness to assimilate high tech. Put together by Happy Walters, who coordinated 1993's Judgment Night soundtrack (which united alternative-rock bands and hip-hop groups), Spawn is the soundtrack to the film version of the hugely popular comic book. The comic series - which has alternative cred of its own, having spearheaded a rebellious new breed of artist-published comics - and its tortured Faustian title character mix a grisly physicality with a futuristic edge. It's a perfect backdrop for these musical pairings.
Wedding hard rock and techno makes for a clash of the apocalyptic and the utopian, but there are several intersections. Somewhere along the way, hard rock/metal went beyond mimicking the literally inhuman force of machines (think of AC/DC's sledgehammer rhythms) to aspiring to a digital relentlessness (the 1,000megahertz attack of speed metal). Techno, for its part, has rarely suppressed its testosterone content; the music's brutally high amount of beats per minute is nothing if not macho. And artists such as Nine Inch Nails and Ministry have been combining hard rock and electronic dance beats for years - it's called industrial.
Truth be told, a lot of plain old rock bands are already quite automated: Digital pitch and rhythm correction, even synths and drum machines, are common on big-ticket hard-rock records, not to mention sophisticated mixing techniques on a par with any techno disc. Perhaps that's why "It's a Long Hard Road Out of Hell," Marilyn Manson's collaboration with fluffy triphoppers Sneaker Pimps, doesn't sound too much different from the former's usual work; nor do the Nine Inch Nailsish pop tones of Filter's track with Los Angeles dance duo the Crystal Method, "(Can't You) Trip Like I Do."
Then again, maybe the rockers' stylistic dominance is just a matter of clout. Several Spawn tracks are the product of face-to-face meetings, and there, rock is the dominant strain in the hybrid, with the tracks turning out simply as bionic versions of the bands. But more were remixes, or collaborations done via mail - making the soundtrack a cybernetic descendent of dub reggae's "vs." records, where inventive producers drastically remodeled existing recordings into ganja-friendly soundscapes. Rock, too, proves no match for the remixer; tellingly, those tracks are the most sonically radical.
Metallica handed off their 1984 classic "For Whom the Bell Tolls" to New York's DJ Spooky, whose dense, allusive "illbient" music aspires to audible semiotics. The only surviving parts of the song are James Hetfield's heavily processed vocals and a looped snippet of guitar, but Spooky's deconstruction is one of the Spawn soundtrack's most adventurous excursions.
Slayer and German noise terrorists Atari Teenage Riot share an uncanny knack for using precision to evoke chaos. The term "in your face" does not do ATR's Slayer remix justice it's more like in your face and out the other side. "No Remorse (I Wanna Die)" shoots through the roof on the strength of a hyperthyroid drum-and-bass rhythm track, then several jarring false endings jolt the listener out of the complacency of the groove. Even while plugging a Hollywood movie, Atari Teenage Riot manage to communicate their revolutionary political agenda. Talk about fighting in the belly of the beast.
Metallica's Kirk Hammett joins Orbital for a killer remake of the ambient groovesters' 1991 track "Satan," which successfully injects Hammett's infernal speed-metal riff into a propulsive grid work of rippling synth lines. With Moby, the Butthole Surfers also locate the heart of darkness in the creepy, singsong melody, cryptically ominous lyrics and sludgy rhythm track of "Tiny Rubberband." The most surprising success is the title-track collaboration between Silverchair and Vitro: Silverchair singer Daniel Johns abandons his usual secondhand-grunge angst and erupts with genuinely apoplectic rage, while Vitro expertly slices and dices the murderous guitar-bass-drum loop that anchors the track.
But right on its heels is one of Spawn's several disappointments. The combination of Henry Rollins' and English jungle overlord Goldie's respective versions of machismo boded well for "T-4 Strain," but Goldie's backing track, skittering and stuttering, refuses to gel, while Rollins' raspy tough-guy doggerel wanders in and out of the mix like a film-noir character lost in a waterfront fog.
No major-label electronica-related album would be complete without Prodigy (whose new album also acknowledges the techno/hard-rock affinity). Here they team with Rage Against the Machine's brilliant stunt guitarist, Tom Morello, whose ingenious approximations of synth noises are seriously compromised by Prodigy chanter Keith Flint's corny boasting. Producers du jour the Dust Brothers trick out their track with Korn with vintage-sounding horror/sci-fi sounds and a modified "Funky Drummer" beat, but those annoyed by Jonathan Davis' mannered vocal style will heartily agree with his repeated chant of "Please take away my PA."
Collections such as this often fall prey to corporate favoritism, and sure enough, the weakest tracks - Stabbing Westward with Wink, Incubus with Greyboy, and Mansun with 8o8 State - consistently involve artists who, like the Spawn soundtrack's label, Immortal Records, are part of the Sony conglomerate. Which just goes to show that we shouldn't always be wary of technology but rather of the people who control it.
Artist: Coolio
Album: My Soul
Reviewed By: Mark Kemp
TWO YEARS HAVE PASSED since Coolio's cautionary tale "Gangsta's Paradise" topped the charts, warning of the temptations kids face growing up in the ghetto. Ironically, the bloodshed that has since ripped apart the hip-hop nation has happened outside of that domain - right smack in the popculture spotlight, with the murders of Tupac Shakur and the Notorious B.I.G. Meanwhile, Coolio has kept silent. Until now. His much-anticipated third album, My Soul, may not be as consistently engaging as Gangsta's Paradise was, but it is no less packed with Coolio's trademark biting sense of humor, tasteful cribbing of classic pop-soul melodies, smooth, low-end '70s-style grooves, old-school hip-hop sensibilities and, well, more cautionary tales.
Take the paranoia-fueled "Knight Fall," which is essentially a tale of fear from the perspective of a young man from the ghetto but alludes to Marion "Suge" Knight, the imprisoned head of the troubled Death Row Records. Although the rap mogul is never directly mentioned in the song's lyrics - the knight of the title refers to nighttime - Coolio's message is clear: It doesn't take a rocket scientist to decipher to whom Coolio is referring in the lines "There's nothing to fear but fear itself/And if you control the fear, then the fear is wealth."
Elsewhere on the album, Coolio gets down to the business of being Coolio - the zany, overgrown kid with flyaway braids who rode a Big Wheel through Los Angeles in the video for his 1996 song "1, 2, 3, 4 (Sumpin' New)." "Ooh La La," for example, is classic Coolio, a playful tune with a rubbery bass line and a sexy, sing-along chorus. In "2:21 of Funk," a song driven by a lazy bass line and a simple drum track, his rapid-fire boasting harks back to hip-hop's early days.
But if Coolio's ear for a great pop hook is keener than most, he sometimes lapses into melodrama. The schmaltzy "Homeboy" is a breezy, string-laden ballad with maudlin (if endearing) rhymes about friendship. He gets away with such indulgences on the single "C U When U Get There," thanks in part to the song's gospelish refrain. Still, Coolio's musical calling card is simplicity. Perhaps the strongest message on My Soul comes in the title song, on which Coolio offers a frank account of what making music really means to him: "Keep the money and the fame/'Cause all I want to hold/Is my artistic freedom/And control of my soul."
Artist: Cornershop
Album: When I Was Born for the 7th Time
Record Label: Luaka Bop/Warner Bros
Reviewed By: Neva Chonin
CORNERSHOP'S BREAKTHROUGH second album, Woman's Gotta Have It (1995), won most of its critical plaudits on the strength of its bookend tracks, "6 a.m. Jullandar Shere" and "7:20 a.m. Jullandar Shere" - 16 minutes of brilliant East-West instrumentation that easily made up for some of the album's lesssuccessful forays into indie rock. The band's leader, Anglo-Indian singer and guitarist Tjinder Singh, knew how to straddle his cultures, but he had yet to master the art of fusing them.
Two years later, Singh and Cornershop have hit their stride. When I Was Born for the 7th Time is a cohesive, finely crafted LP in which the last album's lowfi funk expands into low, fat grooves, and Singh's pancultural, anti-racist lyrics become more sophisticated but no less impassioned. The band's latest lineup Singh; guitarist, tambourist and keyboardist Ben Ayres; percussionist Peter Bengry; sitar player and keyboardist Anthony Saffrey; and drummer Nick Simms - has honed its musicianship, blending a rich assortment of traditional Asian instruments with pop guitar, sample collages and DJ scratching. Best of all, Singh now toys with difference instead of merely acknowledging it: On "Good to Be on the Road Back Home," he performs a droll country duet with Tarnation's Paula Frazer; on "Candyman," produced by the Automator (of Dr. Octagon fame), Singh follows rapper Justin Warfield in a hopscotch between Indian and African-American styles.
Yet for all its stylistic pleasures, politics are the heart of When I Was Born for the 7th Time. "Funky Days Are Back Again" begins as a playful poke at being retro ("The party's got a double e at the end again/Happy days are here again, my friend") but closes with a reminder that "funky days" can be less than carefree ("Zip-zap guns are back again/Worker strikes are back again"). And a wicked rereading of the Beatles' "Norwegian Wood" brings pop colonialism full circle as it mimics the song's sitar signature while Singh gleefully sings the Lennon-McCartney lyrics - in Punjabi. You've got to hand it to Cornershop; even their covers are incendiary.
Artist: The Bottle Rockets
Album: 24 Hours a Day
Artist: Old 97’s
Album: Too Far to Care
Reviewed By: Alden Grant
LIKE MOST MEMBERS OF THE alternative-country club, the Bottle Rockets (St. Louis chapter) and Old 97's (Dallas chapter) have learned their music history backward. Starting with punk rock's door-opening conceit that anyone might play music, they have worked through Skynyrd to Waylon and Willie, then to Haggard and Hank. Nashville will hardly recognize the result, replete with volume, speed and blunt frustration, but both bands - on their third discs now - play blue-collar songs that (at least topically) have more connection to classic country than most of what's on the radio.
The Bottle Rockets offer poignant, precise takes on such traditional subjects as love lost ("Smokin' roo's Alone"), love thwarted by a fuel pump ("Indianapolis," reprised from their first 45) and loving drinking ("One of You"). Brian Henneman, principal songwriter and vocalist, has the bluff honesty of Gary Cooper's sidekick, the one who gets wounded and walks with a limp forever after. Henneman has emerged as a firstclass songwriter, able without apparent artifice to capture life in a simple phrase. The band, alternately laconic and lunatic, matches his tough, vulnerable tone. It's not quite country, for no country outfit could so openly betray its fondness for Mot*rhead, but it is an honest, enduring album.
Coming from a Texas tradition linking Kinky Friedman to Poison I3, Old 97's are closer to speed twang. Too Far to Care storms through 13 tracks like a steer on crank, so persistently that the songs become monochromatic veils concealing any emotion. Lost in that stampede are sad, lonely tunes like "Broadway" and "Niteclub" that might better be served by finesse. Sure, they can sprint through "Four Leaf Clover," the closing duet with Exene Cervenkova, summoning the ghost of vintage X. But few songs - the keys to timeless country - survive the catharsis of punk frenzy.
Artist: Tindersticks
Album: Curtains
Record Label: London/This Way Up
Reviewed By: Lorraine Ali
TINDERSTICKS LAST TWO ALbums lay somewhere amid the seductive thrill of an early James Bond film score, the enigmatic fragility of Leonard Cohen, the velvet romanticism of Neil Diamond and the graceful defeatism of Joy Division. But like the six-piece band's much-publicized penchant for fine, tailored suits, its music also seemed custom-made - sized, cut and stitched for listeners bored with simplistic, three-chord indie rock.
In Tindersticks tradition, their third U.S. release (which follows IV singles and two other European LPs) sounds like the soundtrack to an underrated film from the '60s or a cool '90s arthouse movie yet to be made. The orchestral moodiness of the band and the smoky-blue vocals of Stuart Staples intermingle like two sleepy dancers on a dilapidated ballroom's dance floor. His quavering baritone glides atop the bravado of Latin-style trumpet, sweeping violin arrangements, classical then loungy piano and shimmery organ effects. The result is a stunning blend of smooth beauty and crafted campiness.
Staples' lyrics focus mainly on love, from self-explanatory songs like "Desperate Man" to the romantic interlude of "fucking in the bathroom" in Rented Rooms." "A Marriage Made in Heaven," a duet with actress Isabella Rossellini, capitalizes on Staples' sense of humor: He sings, "She fell in love with my singing," and she answers, "When we fell in love, I was acting." The sharp brilliance of the horn section offsets Staples' contemplative croons, while other disparate instrumentation - from accordion to xylophone to programmed samba beats to guitar feedback - add colorful and unique edges to nearly every song.
This hour-plus album does drag in a few spots where songs get lost in their own melodrama, and Staples could come off as pretentious if his tragically overblown delivery and lyrics are taken too seriously. But Curtains is a carefully balanced album, tailor-made for the space that exists between the dizzying rush of romanticism and the comic letdown of reality.
Artist: Elvis Presley
Album: Platinum: A Life in Music
Record Label: RCA
Reviewed By: David McGee
THE ELVIS JUGGERNAUT ROLLS on, gaining a posthumous momentum that threatens to make his life irrelevant save as fodder for the enrichment of various commercial entities. On its surface, the handsome new four-CD box Platinum:A Life in Music would seem to follow the pattern. Of the 100 tracks here, 77 are hyped as being previously unreleased. Most of these, though, are alternate takes of Elvis classics or rehearsals, begging the question as to whether this set is useful to anyone beyond completists. The answer is yes- there's plenty here to satisfy all tastes Elvis.
In balancing the unreleased material with a few choice timeless hits ("Return to Sender," "Don't Be Cruel" et al.), the collection does an exemplary job of charting the evolution of Elvis' approach to his material. Platinum begins with the spirited explorations of the Sun years, then lima the succeeding decades, when, with ever-deepening interpretive skills, Elvis employed changes in timbre and subtle phrasing techniques to broaden the scope of even the simplest lyrics. Listening to the four discs chronologically is to hear an artist engaged in a three-decade search for self-definition in his songs' narratives. It's an amazing and revelatory journey, encompassing explosive rock & roll, hard-edged country, slow-boiling R&B, sentimental pop, soul-baring spirituals, a haunting stab at folk (a demo of"Blowin' in the Wind" sung in an eerie bass voice) and a single tenderhearted Christmas entry (an alternate take of the beautiful "I'll Be Home on Christmas Day").
The headline news of Platinum, however - which can be appreciated by fans, scholars, critics and religious fanatics alike - is the inclusion of a newly discovered 1954 demo of the unsigned Elvis singing a lilting wisp of a pop song called "I'll Never Stand in Your Way." His unsophisticated performance is mesmerizing: Clearly indebted to the style of the Ink Spots' captivating lead singer, Bill Kenny, Elvis' airy tenor floats delicately above his rudimentary guitar accompaniment, aching and somewhat pinched in its feeling. You sense the singer itching to cut loose, to really swing the lyric, open it up. In those moments, when the pentimento of the blues vocalist reveals itself, the melding of styles that soon would change the course of popular music is on Fleeting display. It's rare when a single song can be said to make a pricey set worthwhile, but this particular Rosetta stone of a rare cut does precisely that. Big time.
Artist: Ric Ocasek
Album: Troublizing
Record Label: Columbia
Artist: Paul Weller
Album: Go!
Record Label: Discs/Island
It's like 1979 all over again. With its clenched-distortion guitar hook and airy come-hither chorus, "The Next Right Moment" -- the first song on the new solo album by the Cars' main-wheel man, Ric Ocasek -- is the spitting, turn-of-the-'80s image of that band's black-pearl melodic polish and cat's-purr locomotion. And that's no bad thing. Ocasek's biggest hits with the Cars were always catchy but disquieting things: airtight rock candy, lightly but artfully scarred with '60s-garage-rock and avant-punk tension.
Produced by Ocasek and celebrity devotee Billy Corgan, Troublizing is more of the same and impressively so, pitched somewhere between the corrosive cool of the Cars' third album, Panorama, and the spacey, muscled menace of the Smashing Pumpkins' Siamese Dream. The frosty, distant tone of Ocasek's wordplay can seem portentous in those songs where the melody doesn't hold taut ("Situation" and the mostly spoken-word "Society Trance"). But "Hang On Tight," "Not Shocked" and the title track reaffirm Ocasek's mastery of the tempered, insinuating gesture: the creeping familiarity of a repetitive riff, glancing splashes of bright choral fun.
Since his earliest days with the Jam, Paul Weller has soaked his records in the iconography of vintage rock and R&B. The title of his latest outing comes from an early '60s Blue Note LP by saxophonist Ike Quebec, and the harsh, cutting quality of the guitars on "Heavy Soul (Pt. 1)" and "Peacock Suit" evokes the crusty proto-Jam swagger of '60s U.K. freak-beat bands like the Creation and John's Children. But raw isn't always riveting; whiny strings and stark, boxy guitar distortion do not suit the tiptoe tension of "Up in Suze's Room." The problem with "I Should Have Been There to Inspire You," a slow-burn ballad of big regret, is too much understatement. A show of guilt in the arrangement, a little tear-jerking kitsch, would have made a difference.
Still, as mixed bags go, Heavy Soul is worth its weight in short, smart pleasures like "Friday Street," "Mermaids" and "As You Lean Into the Light" -- day-glo-sunset pop and bluesy melodrama in the fondly remembered late '60s and early '70s manner of the Kinks, the Move and Traffic. If it doesn't add up to prime solo Weller -- go back to Wild Wood and Stanley Road -- it's still got spit 'n' shine.
Artist: Luna
Album: Pup Tent
Record Label: Electra
Reviewed By: Greg Kot
YOU AIN'T NO CARY GRANT," Dean Wareham tells an "anonymous cad" on the opening track of Luna's fourth album, Pup Tent. And you're no singer, Dean Wareham, but surely you already know that. Pup Tent forces listeners to confront the unappetizing question of which is worse, Wareham's baritone croak heard in its natural state or distorted by studio gimmickry. On the title track, the singer mumbles through what could be a bullhorn, and on "IHOP" and "Whispers," he's made to sound like he's phoning in his performance from the next county.
But even if Wareham sounds like he's got a range that covers all of three notes and a tone that evokes a lovesick bullfrog, he needn't hide now. In a career that stretches back to late-'80s melancholy mood merchants Galaxie 500, he has made the most of his limitations by building a small but alluring universe out of guitar buzz, dry humor and a sad-eyed sense of wonder. Pup Tent extends that beguiling tradition. The understated drumming of newcomer Lee Wall ably complements the interplay of bassist Justin Harwood and guitarists Wareham and Sean Eden, particularly as they embroider the simmering groove of "Fuzzy Wuzzy" and then spiral in dizzying courtship above it. "Beggar's Bliss" and "Tracy I Love You" have a plaintive twang without actually turning into country songs. "Beautiful View" shimmers and swoons with an optimism that is intoxicating.
Wareham's wordplay is as subtle and affecting as the group's interplay. "My mind is taking photographs of every little thing," he sings, and he sprinkles his relationship songs with vivid, scenesetting snapshots, such as this one on "Bobby Peru": "I had lunch with an old girlfriend who knows all my faults and pretends to want to help."
One suggestion for the girlfriend: Lay off his voice, OK?
Artist: Sonny Simmons
Album: American Jungle
Record Label: Qwest/Warner Bros
Reviewed by: Jason Fine
WHO SAYS JAZZ'S HEROES ARE all dead? Sonny Simmons, a ferocious alto saxophonist best known for his work with Eric Dolphy in the 1960s, has emerged after years of playing for change on the streets of San Francisco to record some of the most expressive, original jazz of the '90s. On this album, Simmons blazes through hard blues and sinewy funk originals, as well as a biting take on the John Coltrane chestnut "My Favorite Things." Backed by a muscular all-star quartet, Simmons' playing is explosive, alternating dissonant crescendos with elegantly restrained melodic passages. It's tense, turbulent music and proves that despite years of hardship and neglect, Simmons' fire is burning hotter than ever.
Artist: Mansun
Album: Attack of the Grey Lantern
Record Label: Epic
Reviewed By: Dave DiMartino
TWO SIMULTANEOUSLY HORTrendous name associations may be the only burden facing England's Mansun on this, their rather swell debut album. Dynamic, with matching good hooks and looks, this Manchester-bred quartet oozes commercial appeal. Grey Lantern boasts in scarily radio-friendly tracks (including such U.K. hits as "She Makes My Nose Bleed" and "Wide Open Space"), each cleverly written and arranged by singer/songwriter and producer Paul Draper, each dripping with oddly appealing, sexy vitriol. "He'll be your tax-loss lover from Liverpool," sings Draper in "Taxloss," a '90s rewrite of "Taxman" - which, all things considered, is better than Mansun covering "Helter Skelter" any day.
Artist: Bush Tetras
Album: Beauty Lies
Record Label: Tim/Karr
Reviewed By: Barbara O’Dair
YOU WON'T BE SEEING THEM AT Lilith Fair. No Wave no-goodniks Bush Tetras were the leading femcentric underground band of the early '80s. Now, with the same lineup - Cynthia Sley, vocals; Pat Place, guitar; Laura Kennedy, bass; Dee Pop, drums - as in their prime, they're less minimalist and harder rocking, with raucous, grinding songs about love, trust, money, aging and memory, all befitting a fortysomething punk band.
Produced by dance-funk doyenne Nona Hendryx, Beauty Lies is incredibly tight, hardheaded, muscular, confident, hooky and funny ("Wanna move on to the next disaster/You can help me to get there faster/God only knows it ain't no wonder/Everybody knows Satan is a bummer"), with Place's signature cat-scratch guitar, Kennedy's narcoleptically sexy slide bass and Pop's fierce beats further accentuating the flush pipes of Sley, whose pained howls and sly snarls give her spoken-word cadences extra kicks. These gray hairs have made one of the sexiest records of the year.
Artist: Ziggy Marley and the Melody Makers
Album: Fallen is Babylon
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Natasha Stovall
NAMING HIS SOLID EIGHTH album Fallen Is Babylon (Babylon being the Rasta term for EuropeanAmerican oppressors) makes Ziggy Marley seem pretty optimistic. That impression is reinforced by the classic roots reggae - peppered with ragamuffin and hip-hop flavor - to which Marley and his siblings, the Melody Makers, celebrate spiritual awakening ("Postman"), a positive outlook ("Born to be Lively") and family bonds ("Brotherly Sisterly Love"). But there are some murky corners on Babylon where the music turns somber and happiness is threatened by hatred and tyranny, not to mention everyday heartbreak. "I can only sing of destruction today, 'cause my people are shedding blood everywhere," sings Marley on "Day by Day." Still, like his father, Ziggy is able to persevere, thanks to an unshakable faith: "Never you lose your faith," goes the song's chorus, over a shimmying carnival of percussion, "things and times will have to change, yeah."
Artist: The American Analog Set
Album: From Our Living Room to Yours
Record Label: Emperor Jones/Trance Syndicate
Reviewed By: Anthony Bozza
The AMERICAN ANALOG SET ARE quartet from Fort Worth, Texas, that loves the warmth of vintage equipment and the blissful lull of playing melodies with mantralike repetition. On their second album, From Our Living Room to Yours, they weave an evocative blend of psychedelic melancholia from simple ingredients humming Farfisa organ, sparse reverbed guitar, minimal drums and chorusless lyrics delivered lullaby-style by vocalist Andrew Kenny. There are also some nice atmospheric touches: "Using the Hope Diamond as a Doorstop" closes with the sound of distant exploding fireworks; the suite "Two Way Diamond" (I and II) is graced with the whirring of Fort Worth crickets and a backing track of croaking bullfrogs. The effect is of a hazy summer dusk spent on a screened-in porch - cozy, but quietly compelling.
Artist: Jen Trynin
Album: Gun Shy Trigger Happy
Record Label: Squint/Warner Bros
BECAUSE OF HER TESTOSTERONE deficiency, Jen Trynin is destined to be compared with Chrissie Hynde, Liz Phair and other minimalist chick rockers with attitude. But in truth, the stellar pop craftsmanship and tautly atmospheric low-fi guitar-pop arrangements on Trynin's second album, Gun Shy Trigger Happy, more readily suggest the influence of the Velvet Underground and Alex Chilton. Whether she's lending her airy voice to a spare, radiant ballad like "Getaway" or biting into an aggressively trippy slice of funktinged rock like "Bore Me," Trynin achieves a perfect balance between wry chutzpah and forthright tenderness. This is one gal who needs the current wave of women-in-rock hype like a fish needs abicycle.
Artist: Morrissey
Album: Maladjusted
Record Label: Mercury
Reviewed By: Matt Hendrickson
HEAVEN KNOWS MORRISSEY IS H still miserable. True to form on his sixth solo album, Maladjusted, the Mozz pens lyrics that range from laughably snide ("I don't get along with myself/And I'm not too keen on anyone else") to laughably insufferable ("I praise the day that brings you pain"). But despite his predictability, Maladjusted is Morrissey's strongest musical effort since his 1988 solo debut, Viva Hate. "Alma Matters" is the most perfect bittersweet pop confection that Morrissey has done since his days with the Smiths. Other highlights on Maladjusted are the lush piano ballad "Trouble Loves Me," the foot-stomping rock of "He Cried" and the galloping closer, "Satan Rejected My Soul," each held together by - you guessed it themes of reflection, longing and despair. Happiness, it was really nothing.