
22 July
1553
Privilege
FRIDAY, 22 JULY 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 9 a.m.
Prayers.
ADJOURNMENT
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): As is customary, it is proposed to meet at
7.30 p.m. on Tuesday next when, normally, the Leader of the Opposition would speak in the
Budget debate. Therefore, I move, That this House do, at its rising, adjourn until 7.30 p.m.
on Tuesday next, and proceed at that hour to the Order of the Day set down.
Motion agreed to.
SELECT COMMITTEE
Mr HARRISON (Hawke's Bay): With the leave of the House, I move, That a select
committee be appointed, consisting of five members, to inquire into the character of every Bill
which may be referred to it by Mr Speaker during its progress and to report its opinion to the
House as to whether it is a public, local, or private Bill; the committee to consist of Mr McLay,
Mr Prebble, Mr Reweti, the Hon. Mr Thomson, and the mover.
Motion agreed to.
PRIVILEGE
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I give notice of my intention to move next sitting
day, That this House notes with very great concern that the Dominion on the morning of
the Budget in its front page story correctly predicted that the tax on cigarettes and liquor
would be increased in the Budget, and notes that the Dominion stated that the story was
revealed by political sources; and that this House concludes that it appears that there has
been a serious leak of Budget taxing proposals, and calls upon the Government to explain
this leak from the Budget, and to hold an inquiry to discover who leaked the Budget
information and whether any persons have benefited from the premature disclosure of
Budget secrets.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I am astonished that the member has
given this notice of motion, which I must treat seriously and assume is not an attempt to
score a political point. This is very serious charge indeed, and, if the member has any
evidence, he should bring it forward and move that what has happened constitutes a breach
of privilege of this House.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): The notice of motion
explained the evidence-a flat statement in a newspaper. The honourable member has
drawn the attention of this House to the wording of an article in yesterday's newspaper, that
the Budget "will contain" something-no "may", "is expected to", or anything else. The
article also states that the information came from political sources. The member has drawn
attention, as he is entitled to do, to what appears to be evidence of a leak. He is not privy to
any leak, nor is he aware of the political source that, allegedly, is quoted.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): In that case, Mr Speaker, I suggest that
you rule on whether a prima facie breach of privilege has occurred. I would have no
hesitation whatever in moving that the matter be referred to the Privileges Committee.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I confess to no less surprise than that which
assails the Prime Minister, but my surprise is that he has not himself taken action in the face
of what seems to be an accurate and reliable report anticipating part of the contents of the
Budget; a situation that normally calls for inquiry. I should have thought that the Prime
Minister would institute an inquiry of his own immediately, whether or not invoking the aid
of the House, but, if he considered it necessary to do so, the initiative should have come
from him, not from a private member.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I suggest that the House should not
resolve this matter on a basis of conviction by allegation, which it is in danger of doing.
Standing Order 103, headed "Certain notices not allowed", states, "Notices of motion shall
1-Vol. 412
0328


## p. 1554 (#10) ############################################

1554
22 July
Privilege
not (a) Contain any unbecoming or offensive expression or any expression or words which
would not be permitted in debate." As the Prime Minister made clear, there is no doubt at
all that such words would not be permitted in debate. I suggest that you might look at
Standing Order 103 and rule that the notice of motion is out of order on the grounds set out
therein.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I shall deal first with the point raised by the
Minister of Justice. My notice of motion does not contravene the Standing Orders because
what is stated is factual. I pointed out that a front page newspaper article correctly set out
what would be in the Budget. The headline reads, "Budget lines up smokers and drinkers to
pay more". It then states, "Higher excise duty on cigarettes and liquor will be announced in
the Budget tonight. Political sources revealed last night that Parliament will take urgency to
pass a special Customs Bill increasing the Government's bite on tobacco and alcoholic
products. The extra revenue will be aimed at public health finance." When the Budget was
read, that statement proved to be factual.
In my notice of motion I said that there appears to have been a serious leak of Budget
taxing proposals, and I have called on the Government to explain this leak. If the Prime
Minister considers another course of action should have been taken, that is his prerogative,
but he should explain to the House at some stage how the Dominion came to give such a
correct forecast of the contents of the Budget. I submit that my notice of motion is in order,
and that the initiative is now with the Government to take what action it thinks fit.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): Judging from the expression of a certain
member of the Opposition while that extract was being read I am of the opinion that this is a
political move. Nevertheless, I treat it seriously. I read that statement very carefully
yesterday morning, and with a great deal of concern. My overall impression was that it was a
style of journalism, and nothing more, and I took no further steps. I ask you, Mr Speaker, to
rule on whether this is a breach of privilege, and if you rule it is not I would be perfectly
happy and indeed keen, with the agreement of the Leader of the Opposition, to set up a
special select committee to investigate.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I have one small point to contribute. I
concur wholeheartedly with the Prime Minister's suggestion that the house should take this
seriously, but I believe that if you examine the article you will see that it is exactly what the
Prime Minister has said it is, a style of journalism. Unfortunately, the member for Auckland
Central did not read far enough into the article. I do not have the article with me but I clearly
remember a statement in it that there would be no increase in the standard tertiary bursary.
That was a categorical statement in that article. In fact, the standard tertiary bursary was
increased by $2 a week in last night's Budget. I suggest that there are some items which were
good guesses and some which were bad guesses. All such allegations should be taken
seriously, and if you rule that the matter be examined I am sure it will be shown to be what I
believe it is, a piece of journalism. However, such innuendoes should not be allowed without
thorough examination.
Mr SPEAKER: Attention has been drawn to the fact that part of the article, which is not
in front of me, is plainly wrong in that the statement given is categorical and not something
saying, "My guess is so and so." Two cases have been mentioned as categorical statements
that appear to have been right, while one has been wrong. I feel I should not rule on whether
there is a prima facie breach of privilege until I have had an opportunity to look at the
article, and I accordingly hold over my ruling on that point.
On the earlier question of whether the notice of motion is unacceptable, I feel there is
nothing in our procedures or rules that precludes notice of intention to move a motion like
this, even though, if the matter is as suggested in the motion, it is correct to say that the
question of privilege could well have been raised. I do not think the two are mutually
exclusive. In the meantime, the notice that has been given should be treated in the ordinary
way. I shall consider the question of a prima facie breach of privilege when I have an
opportunity to examine the article in the light of the matters raised this morning.
POTATO GROWING INDUSTRY BILL
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Associate Minister of Agriculture): I move, That the Potato
Growing Industry Bill be introduced. This Bill replaces the Potato Growing Industry Act of
1950, which established the New Zealand Potato Board, defined its powers and functions,
and provided for the regulation of the potato growing industry. While the Potato Board has
done a very worth-while job since its inception 27 years ago, the Act under which it was


## p. 1555 (#11) ############################################

22 July
1555
Potato Growing Industry Bill
established has one major limitation in that it covers only potatoes planted after 1 August
and delivered for marketing between 1 March and 30 November the following year—the so-
called “main_crop" potatoes. Under the present Act the only growers represented on the
Potato Board are the main crop producers.
While this situation reflected the dominant role of those growers in the industry as it was
in 1950, nearly half the potatoes grown in New Zealand now come within the category
known as "early crop". These are the potatoes produced from seed planted between 1
January and the end of February in any year. Under the existing legislation early crop
growers are not represented on the board, and this limitation has severely affected the
board's ability to supervise the supply of potatoes on the New Zealand market throughout
the year.
For the last 10 years or so early and main crop potato growers have sought ways of co-
operating through a reconstituted Potato Board with responsibility for all potatoes grown in
New Zealand. However, under successive Governments and successive Ministers the
growers have been unable to reach agreement, and there have been some quite deep
divisions in the attitudes adopted by the two sectors of the industry. Consultations to resolve
the divisions have been held over many years with the existing Potato Board, the Potato
Growers Federation, the Vegetable and Produce Growers Federation, the Agricultural
Merchants Federation, the Fruit and Produce Merchants and Auctioneers Federation, the
South Auckland Vegetable and Produce Growers Federation, Federated Farmers, and local
branches of all those organisations. One can see from that list that there have been very
wide-ranging consultations within the industry for a long time before the Bill was introduced
today.
While the new Bill still maintains the old definitions of early and main crop potatoes,
one of the major clauses provides for an expanded board of nine members. This board will
comprise three main crop growers, three early crop growers, and one representative each
from the Agricultural Merchants Federation, the Fruit and Produce Merchants and
Auctioneers Federation, and the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. The ministry's
representative will have full voting rights under the new Act and will be responsible for
representing consumer interests on the board. The composition of the new board gives a
clear majority to potato producers, and that was one of my intentions in promoting the Bill.
This is an improvement on the existing situation in which growers have only equal
representation with potato merchants, and it is in line with precedents set with other similar
organisations, such as the major primary producer boards.
The new board will be responsible for all potatoes grown in New Zealand and for
operating a registration scheme for potato plantings. In addition the board will be respons-
ible for establishing and maintaining minimum quality standards for all potatoes sold in this
country for human consumption. It will also be charged with the responsibility of ensuring an
adequate supply of potatoes to local consumers throughout the year, and to this end will
administer, subject to ministerial supervision, schemes for potato imports and exports as
required. Consultation has been widespread. The most contentious matter has been that of
grower representation on the reconstituted board, and while agreement on this issue was
reached at a meeting in November 1976, I understand there is still dissatisfaction in some
quarters. However, I believe that the procedure set down under the Act to recommend three
producer members from the two main groups will be satisfactory-in other words, the
nominees of the Potato Growers Federation and the Vegetable and Produce Growers
Federation will be a method of overcoming the stalemate about representation on the board
that has existed for upwards of 10 years. It is my intention to recommend that the Bill be
referred to the Lands and Agriculture Committee for further study so that all viewpoints
may be heard.
Squadron Leader DRAYTON (St. Albans): The Opposition is in general agreement
with the Bill, and I have only one or two questions for the Minister. Within the St. Albans,
Rangiora, and Avon electorates is the South Island's second largest potato growing area,
producing about 15 000 tonnes a year. That area has been infected on many occasions with
nematode potato cyst, and the growers have been flooded five times in the last 3 years. Will
the board be able to appoint disaster committees to look at flooding or nematode potato cyst
outbreaks, and will it have the power to grant loans to growers who have faced such
disasters, and to allocate money to research to help overcome outbreaks of nematode potato
cyst? I should also like to know whether the Bill has been referred to the various potato
wards for their comments.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): My reaction to the Bill is similar to that of the
1.


## p. 1556 (#12) ############################################

1556
22 July
Potato Growing Industry Bill
member for St. Albans, but I too have one or two questions for the Minister. Clause 13 sets
out the functions of the board, one of which is to foster research and development in the
potato growing industry. This is the Potato Growing Industry Bill but there is no provision in
the board's constitution for a representative from the potato processing industry. However,
more potato processing is being done now than in the past, and I think it would be desirable
to have liaison between the processers and growers to ensure that the type of potato most
suitable for processing is planted.
Provision is made for registration of potato planting and marketing. Is this an attempt to
interfere with direct sales to consumers from stalls or at the gate? While marketing control is
desirable to ensure high standards, too much interference is undesirable, and any moves
made should not interfere with the consumers' ability to go directly to the grower and
purchase at a more advantageous price.
Mr COURTNEY (Nelson): I should like to know whether the main crop producers or
the early crop producers asked for the Bill, and what their reasons were. I should also like to
know whether consumers will get a better price, or whether the Bill will mean consumers will
pay higher prices. For some time the main crop growers have been expressing to the Minister
their displeasure at the march stolen by the early crop growers on the South Island market
and the potato market generally at the beginning of the season. What effects will the Bill
have on the early potatoes received by the South Island? I should like to see an export
market developed for our potatoes, and I wonder how the Bill will assist in that direction.
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: (Associate Minister of Agriculture): The member for St. Albans
mentioned nematode cyst, and the problems associated with that disease. He would be
aware that considerable work has been done on this subject, and it will be continued. The
board will assist in the promotion of that work, but there is no suggestion that the total
research work will be left entirely to the board. This will continue as at present under the
auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries. Loans to assist growers who have been
hit by disasters are not covered by the Bill, but would be by direct Government involvement.
The member for Timaru asked whether the processing industry should be represented
on the board. He would be aware that some of the major growers are also processers.
Therefore, there is no provision for a processing representative on the board, but the two
federations represented do have links with the processing industry. The Bill will not interfere
with the sale of potatoes at the gate. The provision for registration of planting is to enable an
accurate assessment of the number of potatoes planted to be obtained. As members will
know, the industry is notorious for having annual cycles of one good year then one bad year,
and this provision will give a better indication to the people marketing the product of just
what the production is likely to be.
The new board will have the additional responsibility of providing consumer protection
by quality standards. The Bill makes provision for quality control by the board. Potatoes
below a certain standard will not be permitted to be sold for human consumption. The Bill
assists the New Zealand consumer by the production of a better quality product, and this is a
logical and worth-while development. The member for Nelson was more optimistic, and
wanted an assurance on price. I assure him that every potato producer would like an
assurance on price, particularly the producers of large quantities of potatoes, who experi-
enced very depressed prices this year. I cannot give the honourable member an assurance on
price, and I do not believe he expects me to. The potato industry moves up and down, and I
think more additional costs are put on by the retail sector, with which he is more familiar,
than by the producing sector. I should welcome an assurance from the member for Nelson
that the retailers will be conscious of the cost that the consumer bears.
The member also raised the question of exports. He would be aware that New Zealand
has only a limited opportunity to export, because we are a long way from major markets.
Last year New Zealand successfully exported potatoes, but this year we were not so
successful because of the lack of sufficient quality control at this end. The board will address
itself to the question of exports, but I cannot give the member an assurance that the board
can give him a stable price at all times. The objects are to produce a better quality potato, to
have a better system of monitoring production volumes, and to ensure that the product is
marketed in a satisfactory manner.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): On first sight the Bill appears to be completely innocuous, but
when one examines it more closely one realises that it is typical of Bills introduced by the
Government on a morning after an important event like a Budget. As the member for
Timaru pointed out, the Bill is more serious than it appears when first examined. I
congratulate my colleague the member for Nelson on rightly calling attention to the all-


## p. 1557 (#13) ############################################

22 July
1557
Potato Growing Industry Bill
important point that the consumer is concerned about the price of potatoes. The Minister did
not have to make the unnecessary comment he did in his reply; it was not called for. I have
absolute faith in the integrity of the member for Nelson, and I am sure other members have
too.
I read clause 13, which outlines the functions and powers of the board, with some
fascination. Subclause (3) reads: "The board shall have all such powers as may be reasonably
necessary or expedient to enable it to carry out its functions; and in particular it may, from
time to time”—and this is the rub— “ (a) Require any person to declare the area of land he
has planted in potatoes and to register that area of land under section 17 of this Act: (b)
Foster, arrange, or undertake the disposal of surplus potatoes of a legal minimum quality
standard or above; and for this purpose to set aside sums of money as provided in section 23
of this Act." If we look at clause 17 what do we find? Clause 17 states: "(1) Every grower
who, in each registration year, has at least 0.2 hectares of land in the aggregate planted in
potatoes shall register the plantings with the board, and shall pay the registration fee." An
area of 0.2 hectares is not much more land than the ordinary person lays down in lawn.
Before planting a lawn a person may plant potatoes. What does the unhappy person with a
quarter acre section do under clause 17?
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: A point of order, Mr Speaker. When the Standing Orders
were changed some years ago it was decided that debate on the introduction of Bills would
be relatively short and devoted to asking questions of the Minister in charge of the Bill, but
that there could be exceptions to this. Successive Speakers have taken note of that over the
years. This is an administrative Bill with a relatively small policy content. It was requested by
the industry and it has been thoroughly discussed with the industry. It will go to a select
committee where submissions will be heard from interested parties. It will then come back to
the House in its present form or with amendments and be subject to a second reading debate
and a Committee stage. I am not sure what the member for New Lynn has in mind this
morning, but I suggest that it is not conducive to the smooth and orderly running of the
House for the member to perform in the manner he is on the introduction of a Bill. We saw
this happen last year and we all know the consequences. I suggest to the Leader of the
Opposition that the best interests of Parliament will be served by not doing that again this
year.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: Because he has been away a great deal the Prime Minister will
not be aware that Parliament has been running smoothly in his absence. It is quite true that
the time allowed for the introduction of a Bill is by and large for questioning the different
aspects of the Bill, the purpose of its introduction, and the effect it will have on the people
most directly concerned. It is also true that when the Standing Orders were changed, as
adverted to by the Prime Minister, a time limit was imposed for the introductory stage of a
Bill-in the case of the Opposition, 1 hour. I recall very clearly that with that change the
Speaker inevitably adopted a more liberal attitude to the introductory stage of a Bill, but
recognised that the Opposition was restricted to 1 hour of questioning and comment. I
suggest to you, Mr Speaker, and through you to the Prime Minister, that this system has
worked satisfactorily; it certainly worked well in his absence.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The Leader of the Opposition seems to be obsessed with the
fact that I have been absent from the House, but most reasonable New Zealanders take the
view that the absence was for important Government business. I know that I did not have the
support of the Leader of the Opposition. In other days I would have, and with Leaders of
other Oppositions.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not think that aspect should be developed.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I do not propose to develop it, but I take very seriously public
criticism of my attending the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting. I recall that
the Leader of the Opposition publicly suggested that I should have stayed away. Members
who have been in the House a long time know the treatment that a certain type of Bill should
have on its introduction. We are not schoolboys, and we know when someone does
something that is not normal conduct on the introduction of a Bill. Both the Leader of the
Opposition and I know that the member for New Lynn is doing just that. Mr Speaker, I
invite you to rule, as other Speakers have ruled in similar circumstances, that the member
should stay very close to the Standing Orders on the introduction of a Bill. It is not
customary for the Opposition to take 1 hour to debate a Bill of this type.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I take the opportunity immediately of setting the Prime
Minister's mind at rest. There is absolutely no regret on this side of the House-nor within
his own ranks, I suspect-at his absence from Parliament. It has proved to be a device that


## p. 1558 (#14) ############################################

1558
22 July
Potato Growing Industry Bill
has enabled the machinery of Parliament to work much more smoothly.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We have had comment on absence from one side, and comment
in reply. Now we can deal with the point of order, which has nothing to do with the absence
of anyone.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I turn to the point of order itself, and draw your attention to the
remarkably unfortunate timing of the Prime Minister's intervention, which was exactly at the
moment that the member for New Lynn was asking the Minister in charge of the Bill what
effect the Bill would have on a particular area of ground planted with a potato
crop-precisely the kind of question that the Prime Minister said it was appropriate to ask.
That very moment was the one he chose to intervene. I trust, Mr Speaker, that you were
listening, as you doubtless were, to my colleague, and that you were aware, as you doubtless
were, that he was pursuing a series of questions.
Mr Birch: I take the strongest possible exception to the remarks made by the member
for Henderson.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Good!
Mr Birch: And he knows what I am referring to. We should turn to the 1972 and 1974
reports of the Standing Orders Committee, both of which refer at length to the introduction
of Government Bills. The appropriate Standing Order at the time of both reports was 219,
although the number has since been changed. The 1972 report states: "The introduction of
Government Bills is not the appropriate time for members to make impromptu speeches that
would be more suitable on the second reading after they have had the opportunity to study
the legislation." The position is quite clear, and the fact that there is now a time limit does
not alter the principle of the debate on the introduction of a Government Bill. The Prime
Minister is absolutely right in drawing the attention of the House to the fact that the member
for New Lynn was transgressing the Standing Order.
Mr HUNT: Speaking to the point of order, members have said that I may or may not be
transgressing a Standing Order. I want to refer to three points. First, I was on the committee
at the time the new Standing Orders were drawn up, and there was a unanimous decision
that there should be a maximum debating time of 1 hour.
Hon. T. F. Gill: You weren't invited to waste it.
Mr HUNT: We can do without the comments of the Minister of Health. Secondly, the
Minister had declined to answer satisfactorily two questions that other Opposition members
had asked. Thirdly, from the brief look I had had at the Bill I thought there was more to it
than the Prime Minister suggests. It is the Opposition's right, when the Government says the
Bill has nothing in it, to say that the reverse is the position. The Opposition is not always able
to sustain its allegation; occasionally when the Bill is before us other clauses can be pointed
to, but that is the Minister's right in reply. I feel very strongly that this Bill goes a lot further
than either the Prime Minister or the Minister in charge of it have been prepared to say. It is
part of the function of a parliamentary democracy that the minority has the right to make its
case freely, and without hindrance.
Squadron Leader Drayton: I asked the Minister one question he may have missed. Has
the Bill been referred to the chairmen of the various potato wards around New Zealand, and
if not will he ensure that copies of the Bill are forwarded to the chairmen of the potato wards
for their comment?
Mr SPEAKER: I think perhaps the honourable member has overlooked the fact that we
are dealing with a point of order.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Oh, I'm sorry.
Hon. T. F. Gill: You're like the honourable member for New Lynn-you would never
have known the difference.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I take exception to a lengthy, loud interjection while I am on my
feet. Perhaps the Minister did not notice that I had risen, but he should be more careful. The
point has been made that the discussion of a motion to introduce a Bill is a limited debate,
and it has been said that the member speaking was transgressing in that he was speaking too
widely on the motion that the Bill be introduced. The point was properly taken, but
unfortunately it deals with an extremely difficult area in administering the rules and practice
of the House. The borderline between wide-ranging debate, wide-ranging second reading
material, and narrow material is often extremely hard to define. It is an area of greys, rather
than an area of black and white with a proper boundary.
This matter was before the Standing Orders Committee on two occasions, 1972 and
1974. I am not at all convinced that the changes we decided on have worked out successfully.
In 1972 it was said, and this has been quoted this morning: "It is not the appropriate time for


## p. 1559 (#15) ############################################

22 July
1559
Potato Growing Industry Bill
members to make impromptu speeches that would be more suitable on the second reading
after they have had an opportunity to study the legislation." That is the spirit of the matter.
In the report of the 1974 committee it is mentioned that it was decided that a time limit of 2
hours would be allocated to the debate on the introduction of Bills, the time to be divided
equally between the parties and used at their discretion. It seems to me that the distribution
of Bills at this stage was a change that has done more harm than good, in that in the early
days the introduction usually took a few minutes only, whereas now it tends to be a mini
second reading debate. The 1-hour limit was intended to save time, but there is a tendency
for us to use more time and to go on for the hour on far too many occasions.
The point was properly raised. Material such as the sowing of potatoes before planting a
lawn, and matters of that sort, is far more appropriate in a second reading than on the
question of whether or not a Bill should be introduced. The questions asked of the Minister
should be general questions seeking knowledge of what may be the intention of the Bill, or
the intention of the Government, on the matter of procedure and the passage of the Bill.
Mr HUNT: Thank you, Mr Speaker. I have a number of questions to ask the Minister on
matters that I wish to be satisfied about before I cast my vote for the introduction of the Bill.
The first question is, when the potato wards asked for the Bill did they get the Bill they asked
for, and did they see the Bill before it was introduced to the House? I want to warn all people
who plant potatoes about clause 17, and I should like the Minister to answer this question
when he replies. Clause 17(1) states: "Every grower who, in each registration year, has at
least 0.2 hectares . . .", and then in subclause (2) we read: "Every person (other than a
grower) who, in each registration year. has at least 0.2 hectares of land in the aggregate
planted in potatoes shall register the plantings with the board. Is it not possible that the
figure of 0.2 hectares is far too small?
I turn to clause 13, and I quote subclause (2): "The board shall also have such other
functions as may be conferred on it by or under this Act or any other enactment." Do the
potato wards understand that that is a very wide provision? In clause 13(3)(e) it states that
the board may, "Administer such legal minimum quality standard scheme under which
potatoes below a specified size and quality standard may not legally be sold for human
consumption in New Zealand as may be prescribed by regulations made under this Act."
Clause 13(3)(c) provides that the board may, "Arrange for the handling, transport, and
storage of potatoes purchased by the board or any authorised wholesaler." Will the Minister
tell us whether this means that the person who makes once-only planting will be controlled
by the provisions of clause 13?
The question asked by the member for Nelson needs to be asked again, because we did
not get a satisfactory answer the first time. Will the Bill ensure improved distribution of
potato planting and potato production so that we avoid in some way the enormous price
fluctuations that we have had so often in the past? I know it is impossible to avoid these
fluctuations altogether, but could the Minister tell us whether under clause 17, the annual
registration of potato plantings clause, this will be achieved? If we cannot be assured that it
will be achieved, I wonder if this is not just another of the many Bills that come into the
House merely to change very little what is already in existence, and whether this could not be
more properly done in some other way.
Mr Birch: That was a stupid question.
Mr HUNT: The Senior Government Whip can say that any question I ask is stupid or
otherwise, as he is an expert on stupidity. I suggest that is the sort of difficulty he can get his
own side into on a Friday morning, because I have a few other questions that I was not going
to bother about now. Clause 16 states: "In the exercise of its functions and powers under this
Act, the board shall give effect to the policy of the Government in relation to those functions
and powers, as communicated to it from time to time in writing by the Minister." I wonder if
the potato wards are as certain as we in the House are that that means pretty tight
Government control, and that some Ministers are known to write all the time to these
boards, giving instructions, and that that means implementing the policy of either the glossy
or the not-so-glossy National Party manifesto. The Minister should answer these questions,
and then perhaps we may be able to make some progress.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): I underline the point in clause 17 raised by the
member for New Lynn, who asked the Minister if he is satisfied of the need to set at as low as
0.2 hectares the area of land that must be registered when planted with potatoes by a person
other than a grower. Every member knows that it is common to purchase a block of land, a
section-because 0.2 hectares is, on a quick calculation, just over a quarter of an acre, not
much more-


## p. 1560 (#16) ############################################

1560
22 July
Potato Growing Industry Bill
Mr Latter: Half an acre.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: It is something under half an acre. Many people buy a large
block of land like that, perhaps two sections together, and put that land into potatoes before
they develop it, build a house on it, or whatever they may be going to do. I ask the Minister if
this is a deliberate move by the Government to discourage the enterprise of people who have
these blocks of land, because they do it for a purpose: to provide potatoes for their own
consumption, and to sell the surplus, usually in the local auction mart. Where is the policy
that this Government was elected on, to encourage the freedom of the individual, and to
encourage private enterprise? It is surely a sign of enterprise when a person has a block of
land and grows something on it-usually potatoes are the first choice for this type of land in
most parts of the country-so that he can get some return from the land before putting a
building on it, or what have you.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We are now having wide-ranging second reading sort of
material, ostensibly related to the question of whether a Bill should be introduced. If the
House wants to abuse its customs and spend an hour on this, regardless of the accepted views
set out in the reports of the Standing Orders committees-although they cannot be
specifically pointed to in the Standing Orders-that this is a limited debate in which
questions may be asked about the intention of the Government in handling the legislation,
not minutiae of clauses that are properly dealt with either during the second reading or at the
Committee stage, it presumably will spend its time, but clearly this talk in general terms has
nothing to do with the accepted proper discussion on a question that a Bill be introduced.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: Some Opposition members have reason for concern about
the Bill. Was it in fact necessary to go as low as 0.2 hectares of land, as provided under clause
17(2)? Opposition members have some reason to ask these questions of the Minister. It is for
us to decide if a matter may be controversial, not for the Prime Minister or other members
who sit opposite. They may feel satisfied in their minds, and take it upon themselves to say
that we should be too. We have every right to have a different view. We were elected to the
House because we had a different view from members who sit opposite. Despite the view of
the Prime Minister and his colleagues that we should allow the Bill's introduction and not ask
questions, we believe that some of the clauses could have very far-reaching repercussions.
The member for New Lynn mentioned the powers of the Minister under clause 16, and I
ask the Minister just how far it is proposed to go in this direction. Relating clause 16 to clause
17, we could say that the Minister could take it upon himself to decide who would be
permitted to grow half an acre of potatoes. Just how far will ministerial interference go?
How far will legislation brought in by this Government make interference permissible by
Ministers, and by a Government elected on a promise to give people more freedom, and to
encourage private enterprise?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Associate Minister of Agriculture): I hate to delay members
opposite in their quest for information, so I thought I would take the call, and answer one or
two of the points raised. There seems to be some concern about the conversion of 0.2
hectares into acreage. I assure members opposite that it is half an acre on the official
conversion. It was requested that it be brought down to this area purely and simply to ensure
adequate control over disease. Members opposite, or those who know anything about the
industry-which would not include many of them, and not all those who ask
questions-would know that we are seriously affected at present by potato cyst nematode. In
order to protect the industry the board must have some possibility of monitoring the growing
of potatoes, and, consequently, be able to institute sufficient quality control and disease
control measures.
The member for New Lynn, who went through the Bill with a fine-tooth comb, did not
go far enough. He was concerned about growers. If the honourable member reads the
interpretation clause, clause 2, he will note that a grower means a person carrying on the
business of growing potatoes for sale. He would also know that the person who grows
potatoes not for sale, although he has to register them for health reasons, does not have to
pay a fee. I submit to the honourable gentleman that very few young couples going into a
home are in a position to plant half an acre in potatoes before putting in a lawn, which is the
suggestion of the member opposite-
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Where've you been?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: The member for Timaru asks where I have been. The average size
of a section is less than one-fifth of an acre, and the honourable gentleman has the audacity
to suggest that the growing of potatoes by John Citizen and his wife is going to be on half an
acre. The honourable member is not even trying to be serious, or does not understand the


## p. 1561 (#17) ############################################

22 July
1561
Potato Growing Industry Bill
legislation. Interestingly, much of the legislation was drafted during the term of the Labour
Government.
Mr Hunt: Not all of it.
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: I agree. However, the Labour Government could not get the two
wings of the potato industry to agree. The National Government has been able to get basic
agreement to enable it to introduce this legislation. The member for New Lynn and the
member for St. Albans wanted to know whether every potato ward understood the
provisions of the Bill. It is not for me to comment about the potato wards, but I am sure that
after 10 years of discussion with the national body elected by the various potato wards and
organisations throughout the country, they understand what is going on in their industry. I
am sure the message has been communicated to the producers.
The member for New Lynn was also concerned about the direction by the Minister.
Members opposite would know that, even on a Friday morning, a standard procedure in
almost every Bill is that the Minister has the power to direct, in writing. I do not know of any
Minister, unless he was a Labour Minister, who has used that power unnecessarily. I think
that covers the interest the member for New Lynn has in the industry. In reply to the
member for St. Albans, there has been wide consultation with the potato wards during the
time I have been responsible for the industry. If we continue to debate the introduction of
the Bill much longer, we will not get this year's potatoes sown.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Associate Minister of Agriculture): I move, That this Bill be
referred to the Lands and Agriculture Committee, and that the hearings of the committee be
open to accredited representatives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
MINISTERIAL STATEMENT-RELATIONS WITH FIJI
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): With the leave of the House, I want to
make a statement about New Zealand's relations with Fiji. We have all watched with
concern and some anxiety recent events in Fiji in which New Zealand trade unionists have
been involved in a domestic industrial dispute in that country. From private communications
with the Prime Minister of Fiji, and from his public statements, I am aware how deeply the
Fijian people resent what is considered to be interference in Fiji's internal affairs by
nationals of other countries-particularly of those countries which enjoy the closest and
most friendly relations with Fiji.
In this context I am confident that the Prime Minister of Fiji would share with me the
belief that this unfortunate incident need not, and must not, in any way be allowed to impair
the long-term relationship between our countries. I have already offered to him my best
offices in working towards that end. All New Zealanders-and I include the responsible New
Zealand trade union movement-share the Government's desire to foster and enhance the
intimate and long-standing relationships, which we so highly value, with our neighbours in
the South Pacific.
We in New Zealand respect and acknowledge the constructive role that responsible
trade unions can and do play in a democratic society such as ours. Although my Government
has differences of opinion with them from time to time, I believe that, generally, trade
unionists and trade union leaders in New Zealand are responsible. Nevertheless, I feel
bound to point out that the best intentions can be frustrated by the actions of a small group
of people whose allegiances lie elsewhere than to the country of which they happen to be
citizens. The plain fact is that, in the incident in Fiji to which I am referring, some—and, I
readily concede, only a small number- of the protagonists from the New Zealand side have
ideological affinities with great powers whose interests lie outside the welfare of either Fiji or
New Zealand.
Let me be specific. Among the crew of the Ngahere, and playing a prominent part in the
incident, was a man who is known to have been a member of the New Zealand Communist
Party. In addition, shortly after the incident. one known member of the New Zealand
Communist Party, and another man who has had close associations with that party in the
past, travelled to Fiji to stir things along. The identities of those people will be well known to
their fellow trade unionists. The essentially destructive approach of these men to the
situation that arose in Fiji should in no way be constructed as a reflection of the attitudes of
the New Zealand Government or the people of this country to our relationship with Fiji. Nor
do I believe they characterise the views of most responsible New Zealand trade unionists.


## p. 1562 (#18) ############################################

1562
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
MINISTRY OF ENERGY BILL
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): I move, That the Ministry of Energy
Bill be introduced. This Bill provides for the establishment of one department of State that
will be responsible for formulating energy policies and ensuring they are implemented. The
operations of the New Zealand Electricity Department and the Mines Department are to be
part of the new ministry's responsibilities, as are the functions of the Ministry of Energy
Resources. The Government's interests in petroleum exploration and development will also
be brought closer together through the absorption of the Natural Gas Corporation by a
company wholly owned by the Government, which is concerned to ensure that New
Zealand's future is not placed at risk through unco-ordinated energy policies.
In establishing this new ministry, the Government is ensuring that New Zealand's
energy resources will be properly developed and used. We need to know much more about
our energy resources. We also need to be quite sure that New Zealand and New Zealanders
obtain the greatest benefits from the ways we use energy. By bringing together the
responsibilities for producing energy and for anticipating the energy needs of the future, the
Government will be able to ensure that development proposals are fully co-ordinated among
all sources and types of energy. The New Zealand Planning Council, the Commission for the
Future, and the New Zealand Energy Research and Development Committee have all
indicated the advantages New Zealand could expect from a careful consideration of our
resources, the options available in the future, and the choices that should be made now.
These advantages apply equally to the energy needs of our industries, primary producers,
and all consumers; they affect almost every aspect of New Zealand's way of life. I am sure
that the formation of a single ministry has the support of both sides of the House and of the
many others who are concerned about the present and future use of energy in New Zealand.
The major features of the Bill are: the establishment of a new Ministry of Energy, which
is to absorb the Ministry of Energy Resources, the New Zealand Electricity Department,
and the Mines Department; the prescription of the functions of the ministry, which concern
energy, in particular, but also draw attention to its mineral responsibilities; the provision of
power for the Government to form or participate in companies undertaking activities related
to energy or minerals; the transfer of the responsibility for pricing petroleum and coal from
the Department of Trade and Industry to the Ministry of Energy; the transfer of the
responsibility for geothermal energy licensing and related matters from the Ministry of
Works and Development to the Ministry of Energy; and the transfer of the assets and
liabilities, and rights and responsibilities, of the Natural Gas Corporation to a company
wholly owned by the Government, on a date to be appointed by the Governor-General.
These provisions will enable the new ministry and the Government to develop a range
of co-ordinated policies, and to ensure that they are followed. Consultation with electricity
and gas distribution authorities and with private sector producers and distributors of other
forms of energy will, of course, be continued. The Bill does not introduce new policy, but
provides the authority necessary for the development of a new Ministry of Energy and a
merger of the Government's petroleum and gas operations. The new organisation will
enable the Government to ensure that the policies needed in the future are developed
quickly and soundly and put fully into effect. It is not proposed to send the Bill to a select
committee. Neither the Bill that created the Ministry of Transport, nor that which dealt with
social welfare-the nearest precedents for this-was referred to select committees. There is
no need for this Bill to be dealt with any differently; it repeats powers that already exist
under other provisions.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): This important Bill will have far-reaching consequ-
ences on the energy scene. It disestablishes as we have customarily known them three
important Government departments: the Mines Department, which is something like 80
years old and which will be drastically reorganised; the New Zealand Electricity Depart-
ment, a very important Government department that has operated since 1946; and the
Ministry of Energy Resources, which is of more recent origin. The new ministry can pretty
well establish a new ball game in the administration of the various departments and interests
that handle energy. In view of the energy crisis that hit the world very hard in mid-1973, to
rationalise and reorganise is a logical development. The Bill was forecast 2 months ago, and
it is surprising that it has taken so long to appear in Parliament. The Government has
professed a sense of urgency in energy matters, but the country has been waiting 20 months,
ever since the Government came into office, for an overall energy policy. We have had two


## p. 1563 (#19) ############################################

22 July
1563
Ministry of Energy Bill
Ministers, and, apart from a pricing policy, we have had little else.
The Bill must be more than just a public relations exercise. The present Minister of
Energy Resources is well known in that field. I hope his success in this ministry will be better
than his efforts in housing, because after 15 months housing problems were worse than when
he took over. I hope that the feelings, hopes, and aspirations of those concerned with energy
in New Zealand will be realised under this Bill. We all know that the Minister is a fast talker.
It would be better if he acted as fast as he talks. Something like 7000 employees of three
departments of State will be affected by this major move. The Minister has rightly said that
the Bill is in line with Labour Party policy. When will the new department become fully
operational? During the transitional stage of setting up the department, it is inevitable that
many policy questions will mark time, as it were. I see a great deal of urgency in getting the
new department of energy fully operational and functional. Certainly, the appointment of
the head of the department will be a very important aspect in getting it under way.
I take it from the Bill that it is not intended to bring in the Natural Gas Corporation,
except in the manner outlined. I should have thought that the power construction division of
the Ministry of Works and Development—a very large sector in the energy field—would
have been brought under the umbrella of the new ministry. After all, it is a bigger section
than the Mines Department and the Ministry of Energy Resources put together. But for
some reason, apart from the geothermal planning aspect, it is not accommodated. Co-
ordination and rationalisation are needed in energy. On the one hand we have the Mines
Department, which has a policy of shutting down coal mines in the South Island and not
replacing miners who leave the industry, and which is delaying very important decisions on
thermal generating projects such as the Buller thermal station. On the other hand we have
the New Zealand Electricity Department, which is advocating the importation of coal for
thermal generation. Those aspects worry people who are concerned with energy. Perhaps
the Minister could indicate how he expects these conflicting policies to be overcome by the
Bill.
I draw the Minister's attention to clause 12, which provides that the Minister of Energy
and the Secretary of Energy will take over the powers and duties of the Minister of Trade
and Industry and the Secretary of Trade and Industry respectively under the Commerce Act
1975 in respect of the control of prices. That major departure was not foreshadowed in any
of the publicity given to the measure. I wonder if it is a wise or correct move, because prices
in general are one of the most important matters facing the people. To take pricing control,
and perhaps the general stabilisation of prices, away from the department that now has the
responsibility and to hand it over to the new Ministry of Energy begs the question of whether
the Government sees energy pricing as separate from general price stabilisation. There
should be an independent authority outside the department to set the pricing pattern
generally. It is neither right nor proper that such an important pricing area as energy should
be removed from the independent Government agency that controls prices. It suggests that
the Government's energy pricing policy is not considered part of the stabilisation of price
control. When the Minister replies, perhaps he will indicate the Government's and his view
on that point.
The position of head of the proposed ministry has been widely advertised both in New
Zealand and overseas. In fact, the Government could be said to be pre-empting the right of
Parliament to decide whether or not to accept the Bill to set up the proposed new ministry,
and how it should be constituted, and so on. I understand that applications for the position
closed in New Zealand in mid-June and from overseas about the end of June. It seems
therefore that the new ministry proposed in the Bill is virtually a fait accompli before it has
been considered by Parliament. However, perhaps the Minister could indicate the response
to the advertisements and say whether or not the appointment will be open to appeal. It will
be a key position in energy, and it is essential that the right person is appointed to the job.
Naturally, the careers of many people in very important positions in energy, particularly
those in the departments that are to be disestablished, will be seriously affected by the
implementation of the Bill. I can well imagine that those people would be concerned about
the person who is appointed to the top position, and about their future prospects and careers
in the new ministry. I ask the Minister to elaborate on the position of appeals, and staffing
generally.
I had hoped that the Minister would refer the Bill to a select committee. He says there
are precedents for not doing so, but, as I understand there are about 7000 employees in the
departments affected, who will naturally be concerned about their career prospects, salaries,
promotional opportunities, and so on, I am sure they would like to be able to express their


## p. 1564 (#20) ############################################

1564
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
views to someone. Can the Minister indicate how much consultation has taken place with the
Publice Service Association and the State Services Commission on the proposal, and
whether any machinery procedures have been set down for the transitional period? Will the
Minister also tell the House whether, with the disestablishment of the Mines Department
and the Electricity Department, and with the reorganisation of the Ministry of Energy
Resources, the information contained in the annual reports presented to Parliament by the
respective departments will still be available in the form in which is has been until now? Will
it be incorporated in one annual report to Parliament? I believe it is very important that it
should be, as Parliament needs to be fully informed of the work and functions performed in a
wide variety of areas associated with energy in New Zealand.
The amalgamation of the departments should be a worth-while departure, but unless
the motives, urgency, and general approach are along the right lines we will get only a new
superduper Government department or bureaucracy. We remember a similar reorganisation
of the Transport Department a few years ago. There was a major merger of the marine
division and the civil aviation division with the Transport Department and, on reflection, I
would say that the results of that merger have been disappointing. It appears to me to have
done little to improve efficiency in the transport sector; in fact, one Minister recently spoke
of transport as being in a shambles. It would be tragic for New Zealand and for our sizable
energy needs if such a position arose through a lack of the right drive or motivation, or if the
right spirit was not engendered in the new energy ministry and the proper urgency not given
to it as a consequence. The Opposition believes that the Bill is a step in the right direction. It
is in line with the Labour Party's policy and, as I said, it is necessary to get on with the job
urgently. Energy policies in New Zealand need to be more than window dressing or a public
relations exercise.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): I think it is appropriate that I reply to
some of the many points raised by the Opposition spokesman on energy before the debate is
extended. Naturally, I welcome his indication that the Opposition supports the Bill, but I
should have been very surprised indeed if it had not done so. The proposal to amalgamate or
merge the three departments into one featured in the 1972 policy of the Labour Party, but it
was conspicuous by its absence in the party's 1975 policy. However, the member for Petone
reminded us that this policy was reactivated at the recent Labour Party conference; so
obviously this move has the support of both sides of the House, at least in broad principle.
It is true that the proposed merger was forecast 2 months ago. The announcement was
made immediately after the Cabinet meeting at which the final decision was made, and in my
judgment it was most important that the people concerned and the people generally should
be told about it as soon as possible. It has taken a little longer to put the Bill together than I
expected, but it is not a matter of life or death as long as the Bill is passed within the next few
weeks, as I am sure it will be. The member for Petone suggested that a sense of urgency had
been professed, and he wondered why so much time had been taken to bring the Bill
forward. He must appreciate the time it takes to do these things. He was a Minister for 3
years, and I recall that things sometimes moved pretty slowly in immigration when he was in
charge of that portfolio. It is also a fact that we waited 3 years, between 1972 and 1975, for
the Labour Government to honour the energy part of its policy. Not only did it not merge
the three departments into one, it actually preserved the separation more securely than ever
by involving three separate Ministers.
The member for Petone also asked when the new ministry would become fully
operational. It is important that the steps be taken carefully and that the work be done
thoroughly. I am determined to see that the transition proceeds as smoothly as possible. The
appointment of the new Secretary of Energy cannot be made until the Bill is passed. When
an appointment is made, the length of time of which the person selected must give notice in
his present position will determine the time taken to establish the new order. It is important
that the new man is fully consulted in the restructuring of the department, and I am not
anxious to anticipate or pre-empt the moves he may like to advise the Government to make.
When the honourable member has had the opportunity to read the Bill carefully, he will
know that we have retained the maximum legislative flexibility in the structure. The Natural
Gas Corporation and Off-shore Mining will both be brought within the ambit of the new
Ministry of Energy, not as part of the new ministry, but as separate Government-owned
companies responsible to the Minister of Energy, and obviously working closely with the
Ministry of Energy. If the honourable member would like an example of what can be done
by using this type of structure, I recommend that he considers the advantages Air New
Zealand has given the country. It has the structure of a limited liability company, and its


## p. 1565 (#21) ############################################

22 July
1565
Ministry of Energy Bill
shares are owned entirely by the State. It has proved a very efficient and effective instrument
of Government in that area.
The member asked why the electrical construction division of the Ministry of Works was
not included. It is strictly a service division, which will continue to work under contract to the
new Ministry of Energy, as it does under contract to the Electricity Department now. I
would expect the Ministry of Works and Development still to play a considerable role in
geothermal activity. The Bill passes the legislative responsibility from the Ministry of Works
and Development to the new Ministry of Energy, but much of the physical work of drilling
and field activity will be done by the Ministry of Works and Development under contract to
the Ministry of Energy, in much the same way as that ministry at present does work under
contract to the Natural Gas Corporation. I do not share the honourable member's thoughts
on the Government's attitude to the coal mining industry. If ever one needed evidence to the
contrary, one has only to look at last night's Budget, which indicated that a major coal-
resource proving programme was under way.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: "Under way" is right.
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The Leader of the Opposition deprecates what is being done. There
is much greater activity in coal proving today than there was when he was the Prime Minister
and the Minister of Finance. The next question concerned the transfer of pricing respon-
sibilities from the Department of Trade and Industry to the new Ministry of Energy. The
closest consultation will continue between these two departments, but the prime responsibil-
ity will move from the Department of Trade and Industry to the Ministry of Energy, because
it is very important that the latter should have the power and opportunity so to orchestrate
the relativity of energy costs and charges as to make an energy policy effective.
The head of the department will be selected as soon as possible after the passing of this
Bill. I understand that there are more than 200 applicants for the post, and I imagine that the
selection process will take some little time. The actual procedures are not unusual. The State
Services Commission works to the formula clearly set out in the law. I have no doubt the
career opportunities for able young people in the three departments involved in the merger
will be greater rather than fewer as a result of the new emphasis the Government is placing
on energy.
I and the Government do not agree that this Bill should be referred to a select
committee. As I mentioned in my first speech, no new policy decisions need to be taken.
This is administrative restructuring. The powers available to the Government at present
under a range of Acts, set out in the first schedule to the Bill, are essentially the same as
those incorporated in the new Ministry of Energy created by this Bill. I thought the
Opposition spokesman on energy was seeking to magnify difficulties. It is perfectly proper
that he should point to areas in which there could be difficulties, but I assure him that the
experience of previous mergers was studied very carefully before the Government made this
move. We are satisfied that this is the right one, and the member's own experience, as
expressed in the Labour Party's 1972 manifesto, suggests he supports this. Reporting to
Parliament will in no way be inhibited. Parliament will be provided with a similar degree of
detailed information of the various aspects of the new ministry's work, as it is under the
present procedures for the three departments. Some of the reports could well be consoli-
dated into one document, or fewer documents than at present.
I take this opportunity to pay tribute to those, past and present, who have worked for
the three departments over the years. The Mines Department has a long and very celebrated
history, going back almost 100 years. The Electricity Department was born by a separation
process from the old Department of Works after World War II. The Ministry of Energy
Resources is a comparatively recent creation, born in legislation of 1971. Discussions with
heads of departments were full and frank. They were given every opportunity to make
available to the Government their detailed thinking on the advantages of this move or any
alternative move that might have been considered. I compliment them on the manner in
which they have accepted the Government's decision on this matter. Until such time as the
new ministry is formally established by the Order in Council, which will nominate the date
from which this Bill takes effect, the work of the three departments will continue as at
present.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): While agreeing with the main principle of the Bill, I
reiterate the point originally raised by my colleague the member for Petone about sending it
to a select committee. Such a committee would not need to consider the principles behind
the merger; but clause 12, which concerns the control of prices, should be closely examined
and the Government's objectives fully explained. The Department of Trade and Industry


## p. 1566 (#22) ############################################

1566
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
has handled pricing procedures for many years on the basis of ensuring a minimum of profit,
and a fair and reasonable profit, in transacting price adjustments. If the new Ministry of
Energy is to be effective, one of its prime considerations must be the conservation of energy.
Already this Minister and this Government have shown that pricing is one of their major
approaches to conservation, having done very little other than continue to push up prices.
We have seen this earlier, and we saw it again last night in the Budget.
There is a very serious change in the legislation now before us. Until now, all pricing of
petroleum products, coal, and other items covered by the Bill has been the responsibility of
the Department of Trade and Industry, but that will not be the case in future. We are going
from a protectionist pricing policy to punitive pricing, without redress. Would the Minister
give serious consideration to sending this Bill to a select committee so that clause 12 can be
closely examined? If not, will he tell the House and the country what appeal provisions he
intends to give the consumer? At present, an individual or a group can appeal to the
Commerce Commission against a pricing decision made by the Department of Trade and
Industry. Under the new pricing procedures, will an organisation or an individual have the
right to take a case before the Commerce Commission on a decision reached by the new
ministry? I believe this is a major change that should be examined in detail. It is not good
enough simply to say that the secretary, whoever is appointed, can make recommendations
to the Minister to implement a completely new range of prices without any right of appeal by
the users concerned.
Subclause (5) states that in certain circumstances-not all—the Secretary of Energy
shall consult with and consider the views of the Secretary of Trade and Industry before
taking action on prices. That is very limited, as it relates only to the retail margins for
petroleum products-not the retail price-and to the effect that any adjustment in prices
might have on exports of industrial products or industrial development. That is the provision
for consultation between the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Trade and Industry; it
does not go far enough.
I ask the Minister what action he intends to take to protect consumers against a
repetition of the steps taken earlier by this Government, when the prices of all energy were
directly related to the price of imported oil; consumers found that the prices of indigenous
energy were increased very substantially when, in point of fact, there could be no justifica-
tion for such increases under the normal procedures of the Department of Trade and
Industry. Unless there is some form of protection, this move will work very seriously against
the interests of consumers, whether domestic or industrial.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): There are two or three points which,
I think, should be replied to straight away. I realise that the member for Mt. Albert has not
had the opportunity to read the whole Bill, and has seen just a small portion of it. I assure
him he has misread what the Bill in fact will do. No additional powers are being taken by a
Government official. There are no fewer responsibilities, nor are there fewer opportunities
or channels for appeal. All that is suggested-in other words, the alteration of the law as it
now stands under the Commerce Act-is that the control of energy pricing will be moved
from the Secretary of Trade and Industry to the Secretary of Energy, or from the Minister of
Trade and Industry to the Minister of Energy, as the case may be. The appeal provisions
stand as they exist today in the Commerce Act.
I also point out that not all energy is related to oil prices; electricity costs are not so
related. The honourable member, as a former Minister of Energy Resources, will appreciate
the importance of the relative position of one energy cost against another energy cost in the
impact it has upon demand. Clause 12(5) specifically refers to consultation between the
Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Trade and Industry about retail margins for
petroleum products, but a close association between the two departments in thinking and
planning and in decision-making must continue in the future, in any case. As the honourable
member will appreciate, the Ministry of Energy Resources has been closely involved in the
past with the Department of Trade and Industry, and has provided the background
information upon which the Department of Trade and Industry has made its formal price
pronouncements. There has been no lack of consultation in the past, and I can assure the
member there will be no lack of consultation in the future.
The member was obviously in error when he stated that the only energy policy which
has been developed or announced so far concerns energy pricing. That is clearly an
important part, but it is by no means the only aspect of the decisions the Government has
made. The very purpose of this debate, which is to establish a major new ministry to handle
the three departments, represents a major step forward. Pages 6 to 11 inclusive of the


## p. 1567 (#23) ############################################

22 July
1567
Ministry of Energy Bill
Budget are full of examples of the way in which our energy policy is developing in a positive
way. I believe that this, and also the announcement I made earlier in the year about
producing a document called "Goals and Guidelines", with the express purpose of
endeavouring to evolve a process of public consultation and public consensus in decision-
making, show that we are working along the right lines. I am glad that Opposition members
support the Bill. I cannot agree that it should go to a select committee, because I remind the
honourable member again that no new powers are being taken by the Government. There is
a rearrangement of the administrative application, but no new powers or matters of principle
are involved.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga): As has already been indicated from this side of the
House, we agree with the Bill in principle. However, as the member for Mt. Albert pointed
out, it proposes a major departure in the pricing of energy, particularly electricity. If the
Minister of Energy Resources reads his Bill more thoroughly, he will see that the Electricity
Department is one of those which have to encourage the development and improvement of
systems in the supply of electricity. That provision comes from the Electricity Act. The
Labour Government was seriously considering that provision, because it felt that the
Electricity Department should, in association with the Ministry of Energy Resources,
embark on an educational programme to make people aware of the energy crisis that had
come upon us. We did this by circulating to colleges and schools pamphlets dealing with
energy conservation.
Yet, under clause 17, the ministry has to encourage the development and improvement
of systems of supply of electricity. We cannot quarrel with the improvement of systems of
supply, but I think we should look a bit further than that. Paragraph (a) states that one of the
functions of the ministry will be to initiate, organise, co-ordinate, continue, and maintain the
production, transmission, and supply of electricity. In paragraph (d) it is stated, "To initiate
and carry out surveys in respect of the supply and use of electricity." The latter provision is
reasonable, but the others would lead one to believe that the Electricity Department will
carry on the promotion and sale of electricity under the Ministry of Energy. It was to the
advantage of the old Electricity Department to sell as much electricity as possible, because
the more electricity the department was able to sell the greater its profit. We are now in an
era in which we no longer have cheap hydro-electric generation and have to spend large sums
of money on thermal generation, yet we have to assume that that clause proposes a
continuation in the policy of promoting the sale of electricity.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: Have you forgotten about last year's amendment?
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: The Bill does not mention that, but in effect supersedes the
Electricity Act. Clause 18 states that reference to the General Manager of the New Zealand
Electricity Department shall hereafter be read as a reference to the Secretary of the Ministry
of Energy, so the powers of the General Manager of the Electricity Department are to be
taken over by the Secretary of Energy. When this Bill is passed, it will therefore be supreme
over the Electricity Act.
I come back to the point made by the member for Mt. Albert, who said that clause 12,
which transfers pricing responsibilities from the Department of Trade and Industry to the
Ministry of Energy, could be seen as a punitive pricing arrangement. I share that view,
because I believe that the Secretary of Trade and Industry has the overall interests at heart,
whereas the Secretary of Energy will have a responsibility only to his department. The
Government has already brought in punitive pricing measures in the name of conservation,
and people who depend on electricity for their comfort and well-being are being penalised.
Many homes have been built by local authorities-and heavily subsidised by the
Government-with no provision for alternative forms of energy, and many pensioner units
have no provision for open fires or gas heaters. The Government's pricing policy will hit these
people hardest, because people on higher incomes can afford to pay the increased energy
prices. The Minister of Housing is mumbling away in the background, but that is a
fact-although new homes now provide for a variety of energy forms. I am concerned that
the pricing of electricity will now be the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Energy, and I
should have preferred the Secretary of Trade and Industry to be responsible for this. Under
the present system, the Ministry of Energy Resources is in close consultation with the
Department of Trade and Industry, but under the proposed system the Minister of Energy
will make the final decision.
The Bill removes responsibility from people who have given faithful and loyal service
over the years-particularly the Secretary of Mines and the General Manager of the New
Zealand Electricity Department. Have the power supply authorities been consulted on the


## p. 1568 (#24) ############################################

1568
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
legislation, and, if so, do they agree with the proposals? If they have not been consulted, that
is another reason for sending the Bill to a select committee.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): I share the view that the Secretary of
Mines and the General Manager of the Electricity Department have been faithful and loyal
over the years, but I cannot accept the argument that, because a system has produced such
faith and loyalty, it is beyond change. The energy picture throughout the world has changed
dramatically since the Energy Resources Act was passed in 1971. The member for
Heretaunga should be well aware that in 1973, as a result of the OPEC action, the energy
scene changed; it will never be the same again. We must respond to the change in
circumstances. It is important for our future well-being that we do, and a strong new
Ministry of Energy is the administrative way to meet this challenge. No outside organisations
were consulted before this decision was made, because it was a decision that the Govern-
ment should quite properly make. This reorganisation conforms with party policy, and the
many organisations that have been advised of the Government's intention have accepted the
decision and, in most cases, have supported it enthusiastically.
The member for Petone asked about appeals against the appointment of the Secretary
of Energy. An appeal is possible if the person appointed had not, immediately before his
appointment, been an officer in the Public Service, the education service, the Railways
Department, the hospital service, or the Post Office. If the appointee had not been so
employed, his appointment would have to be supported on the grounds that he clearly had
more merit, otherwise the appeal procedure would apply. I did say that the number of
annual reports would be reduced. The Ministry of Energy will present only one annual
report, but other documents such as planning reports could be presented to Parliament; that
is why I used the plural.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Does that include the Mines Department, coal mine prospecting,
and so on?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: That would be covered by the Ministry of Energy's report, but the
range and value of information will remain at the present level.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): The Opposition is serious in its request that the Bill be
referred to a select committee, because, while there might be good sense in the Minister's
reasons for clause 12, there is a change of emphasis. The Opposition is concerned that the
consumer, who has been protected by the Department of Trade and Industry, will receive
similar protection from the new Ministry. The Ministry of Energy should look at the tariff
structure of some of the energy boards. It might come to grips with the tariff structure more
realistically than the Department of Trade and Industry has in the past. The request made by
the Opposition will help the Minister and the people; as members, we represent the people
by safeguarding their rights, and their economic rights are important.
I shall give the Minister another reason the Bill should go to a committee. I wonder if
the Minister is listening, as I notice he is being interrupted by another Government member.
What I am saying to the Minister is important, and I want to help the Minister and the
Government in this matter. Government members seem to object to what I am asking, but I
have the right to ask the Minister questions, and I expect the Minister to treat my
representations responsibly, even if I do not receive responsible treatment from the 99 Club.
I object to the provision in the fourth schedule that the Natural Gas Corporation be
converted to a limited liability company, or a designated company, under the legislation.
Only general information is given in the fourth schedule; it does not indicate the capital or
the liability of the company. The fourth schedule gives no information about the powers to
be given to the company, or the responsibility of the company either to the ministry or to
Parliament.
The Natural Gas Corporation was set up to locate an important resource and to
distribute it in the most economical way. The Minister likened this to the structure of Air
New Zealand, and said that it will be a wholly Government-owned company. I accept his
explanation of that point, but the corporation now becomes a company. Last year, the
National Gas Corporation was restructured with separate capital and separate rights. I do
not believe that it is the right procedure for Parliament to legislate that the Natural Gas
Corporation becomes a limited liability company without further explanation than that
provided in the fourth schedule, the provisions of which become effective by Order in
Council. The Minister said that the legislation introduces no new policy, but I suggest that
that is a change of policy.
The Opposition is entitled to ask that this policy be expressed in separate legislation.
The matter is separate from the Ministry of Energy Bill. I ask the Minister to withdraw the


## p. 1569 (#25) ############################################

22 July
1569
Ministry of Energy Bill
fourth schedule and, if its provisions are necessary, to introduce them in separate legislation.
If he is not prepared to do that I ask him to refer the Bill to a committee, because the policies
should be considered by a select committee. What will the Government's liability be in
assisting in the capital structure, finding the share capital, and the powers and liabilities of
the company? Parliament should not allow this measure to come into being by Order in
Council.
I had hoped the Minister might consider sending the Bill to the Commerce and Mining
Committee, which is the most appropriate committee. My colleague the member for Petone
suggested that the Ministry of Energy should also embrace the electricity construction and
other energy resources development sections of the Ministry of Works and Development. In
the first schedule to the Bill, enactments relating to electricity-namely, the Lake Coleridge
Water Power Act 1915 and the Manapouri-Te Anau Development Act 1963—which are at
present under the control of the Ministry of Works, are now being brought under the
Ministry of Energy. The transfer of responsibility for those two Acts sets a precedent, so it
would be appropriate if the construction section of the Ministry of Works and Devlopment
became part of the Ministry of Energy. That would be worthy of canvass by a select
committee.
I ask the Minister if the Ministry of Energy Bill replaces the 1972 legislation that set up
the Ministry of Energy Resources. I expected to see a clause repealing the Ministry of
Energy Resources Act 1972, but I do not see it in the Bill before us. I might have overlooked
it, and if I have the Minister might help me. If it is not repealed, what is the significance of
the Ministry of Energy Resources Act 1972? The Opposition has indicated that it goes along
with the principles of the legislation. There is no need to push the legislation forward. The
reorganisation can go ahead for the formation of the new department, but there is time for
considered judgment by a committee of the matters I have raised. I am certain that that will
make a better department in the end. I appeal to the Minister to send the Bill to the
Commerce and Mining Committee.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): The Minister rightly said that the Labour Party
called for a new department of energy at its annual conference. The Bill is disappointing, and
the way the Government has gone about it is wrong. The Government should have done
what the Minister said he would do, and what his predecessor had said he would do—that is,
introduce an energy policy. The Minister referred to that when he introduced the Bill. I
believe that the Government should have introduced an energy policy, and then introduced
the Bill.
Mr Friedlander: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The debate should be confined to why
the Bill should be introduced. The member is suggesting what should or should not be in the
Bill, and that is out of order.
Mr PREBBLE: Speaking to the point of order, I was referring to the fact that we have
been promised an energy policy for 20 months. I was not suggesting that it should be
incorporated in the Bill; I was saying that the timing of the Bill should have been related to
that policy. One of the questions to be asked on the introduction of a Bill is whether the
timing of it is right. I also draw your attention to the fact that the Minister referred to that
long-promised document. I believe that I am quite in order in referring to whether or not the
Bill is being introduced at the right time, and in asking if perhaps it should not have been
introduced after the announcement of the energy policy rather than before, because that
policy could affect the way in which the Bill is drafted.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: I listened carefully to the member who was speaking; I can
confirm that the whole thrust of his remarks was different from what he has just told us. In
effect, he said, "I contend that such and such should be in the Bill." He was discussing not
whether the Bill was being introduced at the right time, but what should have been in it. The
point of order raised by the member for New Plymouth is valid. The member was proceeding
to tell us what he thought should be in the Bill; he was not debating what is in the Bill, or why
it should be introduced.
Hon. Michael Connelly: The member for Auckland Central was discussing the desirabil-
ity or otherwise of the introduction of the Bill. He was giving reasons for the House to
consider whether the Bill should be introduced. At the stage that the point of order was
raised, he was embarking on a course of action that was quite proper and in accordance with
the Standing Orders.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Well, the member for Auckland Central, who suggested that
this is the wrong time to introduce the Bill, was one of the few members who have given us a
valid reason for or against the Bill's introduction since I have been in the chair. Really, I do


## p. 1570 (#26) ############################################

1570
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
not know how many times we have to remind members of the 1974 report of the Standing
Orders Committee, which stated: "On the introduction of Government Bills, the committee
considered various proposals to amend the procedure relating to the introduction. It was
agreed finally that the present procedure should be retained, but that a time limit of 2 hours
should be allocated to the debate, 1 hour for each side." The procedure is that agreed to in
1972: "There was general agreement that the introduction of a Bill, except in exceptional
cases, need not be a lengthy process, and that in general all that is necessary is a brief
explanation from the Minister, followed by a limited period of questions." We have certainly
not been having that. The motion before the House is whether the Bill should be
introduced-none other. If members agree to the introduction of the Bill, they will have the
opportunity to give it further and more detailed consideration during the second reading.
The member for Auckland Central was, in fact, giving a reason for not introducing the Bill
now; that is one of the few points I have heard raised this morning that is valid in the
introduction debate on a Bill.
Mr PREBBLE: The introduction of this Bill now is putting the cart before the horse. To
paraphrase the words of the Minister, the Bill is being introduced so that the Government
can carry out an energy policy that has been promised to us for 20 months. We still have not
seen the policy, and we do not know whether the Bill carries out this new energy policy. I ask
the Minister whether, in passing this Bill, we can safely assume that the principles contained
in it will also be contained in the energy statement. If we cannot, I do not support the Bill as
it is written.
I find the Bill disappointing. I draw the Minister's attention to two clauses that are
statements of principle in themselves; if these principles are to be contained in his energy
statement, that statement will not have my support. The first covers the point made very ably
by the member for Heretaunga—that the Electricity Department has been absorbed by this
legislation. Clause 17 contains a section taken straight from the Electricity Act. The new
section 6(b) of the Electricity Act states: "To encourage the development and improvement
of systems of supply of electricity". Paragraph (c) states: "To seek to ensure standards of
safety, efficiency, and economy of operation in respect of the production, transmission, and
supply of electricity", and paragraph (d) states: "To initiate and carry out surveys in respect
of the supply and use of electricity". I submit that in the past, under those principles, the
Electricity Department has seen it as its duty to produce as much electricity as possible, to
sell as much electricity as possible, and to make as big a profit as possible. One of our main
difficulties now is the idea that the Electricity Department can produce an infinite amount of
electricity and supply it to anyone, regardless of what it is to be used for. There is no longer
simply an abundant supply of cheap electricity; that is the main energy crisis facing the
country.
In introducing the Bill, the Minister said he had changed none of the principles that the
department has acted under. In effect, he is saying that we will not have a new energy policy,
that we will carry on as in the past. It seems that all clause 17 does is create a super-
bureaucracy to run energy. We on this side of the House do not support that concept. We
believe that a new statement of energy priorities is needed, and that it should be included in
this Bill.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! The member has just informed me that a certain
matter is not included in the Bill, and he cannot make it relevant by suggesting that it should
be. I remind him that we are debating the introduction of the Ministry of Energy Bill. We are
not debating an energy policy, nor whether it should be in the Bill. Obviously it is not,
because the member has told us that it is not; so it is quite irrelevant at this stage.
Mr PREBBLE: I am very much concerned about what policies are contained in the Bill,
because they are inadequate. I refer not only to the clauses that take over the functions of
the Electricity Department, but also to the statements made by the Friends of the Earth.
Their statement on energy is a very interesting document.
Mr Lithgow: Where is that mentioned in the Bill?
Mr PREBBLE: They made a statement on a new energy policy, which, if the member
for Palmerston North had read it, as he should have done-
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I asked the member a moment ago not to discuss an
energy policy at this stage. He has assured me that there is no energy policy in the Bill;
although he may wish to see it in the Bill, it is not there. Therefore, it is not competent for
members to discuss an energy policy now. If the member is discussing an energy policy, he is
out of order. If he is not discussing an energy policy, the only matter he can discuss now is
whether the Bill should be introduced.


## p. 1571 (#27) ############################################

22 July
1571
Ministry of Energy Bill
Mr PREBBLE: Mr Deputy Speaker, I assure you that my point is the fear that has been
expressed that the Bill will set up not a new energy ministry but a super-department of
electricity. It is feared that the Electricity Department will in effect absorb all the other
departments, and that the philosophy of the Electricity Department, which is no longer valid
today, will be imprinted across all the other Government departments. I refer to the
statement made by the Friends of the Earth in their very interesting paper, and I believe that
their fears will not be allayed by the way in which the Bill has been put together. I am not
impressed by the Minister's statement that no major change has been made in the functions
of the department, because what he is saying is that there has been a scissors and paste job; it
seems that all he has done is go through the existing Acts, cut them up, and paste them
together, and hope that somehow or other that will result in a better department.
Mr McLay: You're attacking the law draftsman.
Mr PREBBLE: I want to make it clear that the statement made by the member for
Birkenhead, that I am attacking the law draftsman, is not correct—the law draftsman is
obviously acting under instructions. I make it very clear to members that I would not do such
a thing. I believe that the Minister has given that instruction, and that it is an incorrect
instruction. Clause 11 refers to the general functions of the ministry in relation to energy
policies. I believe that clause 11(3) indicates the priorities of the Government. It states: "In
carrying out the functions specified in subsections (1) and (2) of this section, the ministry
shall take into account all relevant considerations relating to energy, including . . .”—and
then we have to go all the way down to (f) before we find "environmental and other social
considerations". I believe this indicates the Government's attitudes, but environmental and
social considerations should have first priority when we are dealing with energy; in fact, they
should have been one of the main purposes of the Bill. When the Bill is drafted in this way, it
seems to indicate that environmental considerations will always be as low as paragraph (f) in
the consideration of a new ministry, whereas they should be in the first paragraph-in fact,
they should have a separate subsection of their own.
I urge the Minister to send the Bill to a committee, as it is in need of major redrafting. If
it is the Minister's intention that environmental considerations be given greater priority, this
Bill could reflect that intention better after being redrafted. People such as the Friends of the
Earth, who have gone to considerable trouble to put out papers urging such a new ministry,
should be given the opportunity to give us the benefit of their considerable expertise in this
area. We could then have a Ministry of Energy that is not simply an exercise in empire
building, but is in fact a reflection of a new energy policy, which this country desperately
needs. We have been promised it for 20 months, but we still have not got it.
I believe that the Bill will turn out to be very disappointing for those people who have
been led to expect a great deal more from the concept of an energy ministry. The Labour
Party supports the concept of an energy ministry, but not one that is just a continuation of
the existing departments, which is what the Minister told us this morning. He made much of
the fact, and said that the Bill should not be sent to a committee because there was no
difference. If that is so, what is the point of the Bill? We do not need to introduce such a Bill
if all it provides is a continuation of existing departments. If what the Minister says is correct,
it appears that the only effect of the Bill will be to build up the Minister himself—and I do
not advocate that. I think he has gone far enough. The Bill as it is framed, and as it has been
explained, is very disappointing. It is nothing more than a scissors and paste job. I fear that
we are going to have a super-bureaucracy that will turn out like the Ministry of Transport, so
that, instead of having our hopes fulfilled, we will find an almighty mess in the energy sector
when we take over as the Government again, in another 20 months.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): It is a distinct pleasure to follow the
honourable gentleman. If anyone ever wants his criticism of anything taken seriously, I
suggest he study the recent speech by the member for Auckland Central as an example of
how not to do it. He talks of a scissors and paste job. He insults the profession I believe he
belongs to. The Bill is a very serious, very well prepared endeavour to bring a number of
administrative and legislative proposals together in one simple Bill, in a way that even the
member for Auckland Central should be able to understand. He has not even been able to
follow the basic points I made at the beginning. There is no question of the three existing
departments continuing as they were. I did not suggest that. What is involved is an important
merger of their functions. The Bill does not cover new ground by establishing new principles
or matters of policy. This is very strictly an administrative measure, a realignment of the


## p. 1572 (#28) ############################################

1572
22 July
Ministry of Energy Bill
chain of responsibility, a moving of certain very important functions from one responsibility
to another, but the legislative character of those functions in terms of the relationship of the
Government to the citizen remains essentially the same.
Much was made by the member for Auckland Central of the fact that in clause 11 the
reference to environmental and other social considerations was listed as sub-subclause (f)
instead of sub-subclause (a). Can you imagine anything more nonsensical than that? If that is
the best he can do in his contribution to the debate, we do not need to take the risk too
seriously. Several members, including the member for Heretaunga, drew attention to the
fact that there were certain provisions for functions under electricity, which the member
suggested meant that the Electricity Department would be concerned to promote electricity
as its prime purpose. This is, of course, ridiculous, because it is not in the Bill, it is not the
way in which the department is working, and it is quite clear that nothing in the policy of the
department or the legislation that will flow out of this measure will make the electricity
element of the new Ministry of Energy responsible for promoting the sale of electricity. The
promotion referred to in clause 17 does not refer to the promotion of the sale of electricity,
but states "initiate, organise, co-ordinate, continue, and maintain the production, transmis-
sion, and supply of electricity", and "encourage the development and improvement of
systems of supply of electricity". This is not a question of promoting the sale of electricity for
its own sake, but to make sure that the supply of electricity is sufficient to meet the electrical
needs of the country. The Ministry of Energy or the present Department of Electricity would
be clearly failing in their duty if they did not arrange this.
An important qualification in the second paragraph of clause 17 is that all these
provisions set out in the first clause are in any case subject to section 11 of this same
measure. Section 11 makes clear that, among the considerations, the Minister shall in
particular "promote, encourage, and stimulate efficient, economical, and co-ordinated
methods in activities relating to energy; promote, encourage, and stimulate efficient and
economical uses of energy and sources of energy; formulate methods of influencing and
promoting the conservation of energy". All those provisions, which the new ministry must
have regard to, bear very strongly on conservation and efficiency.
The member for Hutt mentioned appeals and rights. As I have said, the citizen's right of
appeal will be retained when the pricing responsibilities are transferred from the Depart-
ment of Trade and Industry to the new Ministry of Energy. Clear and specific reference is
made to the Commerce Act 1975, which states that the functions, powers, and duties—and I
stress the word "duties"-conferred on the Secretary of Trade and Industry under that part
of the Act are transferred to the Secretary of Energy. The member for Hutt also mentioned
the Natural Gas Corporation, and seemed to be concerned about its assets and liabilities.
The corporation's annual report for the year ended 31 March last was tabled in the House a
few days ago. In my earlier remarks I pointed out that the Bill will bring the work of the
Natural Gas Corporation and the on-shore mining of gas and petroleum-which will
properly be the work of the Government-together, as announced in the Budget last night.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! There is nothing in the Bill about on-shore or off-
shore gas prospecting programmes. As they were mentioned in the Budget, they are the
subject of another debate.
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I was just making the point that Schedule IV provides for the
incorporation of the Natural Gas Corporation in a new Government-owned company, which
would include the corporation's off-shore mining functions, and such other gas and
petroleum functions as the Government may see appropriately placed under a company
structure. As the honourable member knows, the example I gave was Air New Zealand,
which is totally owned by the Government, and responsible and responsive to the Govern-
ment's requirements for civil aviation. It is clear that Opposition members are not against
the measure, but have sought long and hard to find some aspects they could criticise.
Nothing of substance can be criticised, because the measure is a sound one. I remind
members opposite that their own 1972 election manifesto and party conference endorsed the
principles contained in the Bill.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): I move, That this Bill be referred to the Commerce and
Mining Committee, and that the hearings of the committee be open to accredited representatives
of the news media.
The House divided.


## p. 1573 (#29) ############################################

22 July
1573
Ministry of Energy Bill
AYES, 26
Arthur; Bailey; Batchelor; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Douglas; Finlay;
Freer; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; MacDonell; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble; Rata; Rewiti; Rogers;
Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall.
Tellers: Drayton; Young, T.' J.
NOES, 39
Adams-Schneider; Allen; Austin, H. N.; Austin, W. R.; Bell; Bolger; Brill; Comber;
Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott; Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Friedlander; Gair; Gandar;
Gill; Gordon; Highet; Holland; Jones, D. M. J.; Lambert; Latter; Lithgow; McLay;
Malcolm; Minogue; Quigley; Schultz; Shearer; Talbot; Thomson; Walker; Wellington;
Wilkinson.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
Pails
For: Barclay; Fraser; Lange.
Against: Jones, N. P. H.; Talboys; La Varis.
Majority against: 13.
Motion negatived.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONSS
Unemployed-Special Workers for Tree Planting
1. Mr COUCH (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Labour: How many unemployed are
planned to be used this season on special work for tree planting, and how does this number
compare with that for the past 2 years?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): There is no analysis of the number of special
workers engaged on tree planting in the New Zealand Forest Service. However, the Forest
Service expects to employ up to 1500 special workers this year, and all of those will be
employed on work either directly or indirectly related to planting trees. The maximum
number employed by the New Zealand Forest Service in 1976 was 1510, and in 1975, 1242.
Mr Hunt: Why is it that although there are still a large number of people on special work
for tree planting the amount of money put aside by the Forest Service for the planting of new
forests has gone down quite considerably since the Labour Government was in power?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I cannot allow that question. It is not in elucidation of the
answer given. The question asked how many unemployed will be used on special work for
tree planting, and how that number compares with the figures for the last 2 years. It is a
matter of numbers, not money, and is not in my opinion relevant.
Mr Hunt: Could I rephrase the question?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Certainly.
Mr Hunt: As the Minister's answer indicated that over 1000 people are still involved in
tree planting, can he indidate whether there will be trees for them to plant?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The member has his figures wrong. There are more than 1500
special workers; the member referred to 1000. The original answer indicated that it had risen
from 1242 under the Labour Government to 1510 under the National Government, and that
it was proposed to have more than 1500 special workers, in addition to the permanent Forest
Service staff, planting trees this year. We have planted more trees in the last 2 years than in
the preceding 2 years under both programmes-Forest Service planting plus special work.
There is no shortage of trees this year for all the special workers, but we must have
contingency plans, depending on the number of unemployed.
Mr Bell: Can the Minister confirm that the employment of these special workers has not
resulted in a reduction of permanent staff for this purpose in the Forest Service?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The permanent Forest Service staff supervise. One or perhaps
two staff members go right into the area in Defence Department four-wheel-drive vehicles.
It is commendable that the Forest Service staff strength has been held, and I draw members'
attention to the book by Harry Morton, Which Way New Zealand?, in which he said that it


## p. 1574 (#30) ############################################

1574
22 July
Oral Answers to Questions
was the most productive way we could use surplus labour.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Imports of Office Equipment
2. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Can he
explain why the volume of imports of typewriting, calculating, and accounting machines rose
between 1975 and 1976?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): Provisional
statistics show that the volume of imports of calculators rose in the 1975-76 year but has since
declined. The rise has been attributed to the rapid rise in popularity of the pocket calculator.
At the same time the volume of imports of typewriters and accounting machines declined.
Mr Hunt: By how much did the volume of imports of typewriters decline between 1975
and 1976?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I can only give the honourable member the answer
in importing years-12-month periods-for typewriters. In 1974-75 the number imported.
was 27 934; 1975-76, 20 301; and 1976-77 to April, 9126.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Post Office Capital Development Programme
3. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What proportion of
the Post Office's capital development programme is funded from Post Office revenue?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): For the year just ended the proportion
is expected to be about 60 percent.
Mr Wellington: Did the administration of the Post Office in the years 1972 to 1975 leave
the taxpayer out of pocket to the unprecedented extent of $66 million in subsidy payments?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order!
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Sixty-six million dollars is correct.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! That has nothing to do with the original question. If
members want to ask supplementary questions they must tie them to the answer given to the
original question. Supplementary questions are to elucidate further information which the
member could expect to get from the Minister but which is not given in the original answer.
Mr Rogers: In view of the rise in Post Office charges from 1 October, could the
Postmaster-General guarantee that none of that extra revenue will be allocated to the
Consolidated Revenue Account, but that it will be spent on capital development within the
Post Office?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! That is not in elucidation of the original question. The
original question asked what proportion of the Post Office's capital development programme
was funded from Post Office revenue. The answer was 60 percent. It is pretty hard to find a
supplementary question that is relevant to that.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: In view of the fact that the Post Office already finances 60 percent
of its capital development programme, which must come out of either profits or deprecia-
tion, do we take it that the increase in charges to take place from 1 October is to push the
percentage up from 60 percent; and, if so, what percentage does he hope the Post Office will
contribute in the future to finance its own capital programme? Is he anticipating 100
percent?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: In the 1960s the National Government accepted as a
maximum funding level approximately 65 percent if costs and revenue permitted. As to the
application of the extra revenue that will be gained from the increased charges, such a
question is premature because we have yet to have the final profit and loss account back
from the Controller and Auditor-General and made public. Until I have those figures, any
attempt to answer such questions would be premature.
Mr Wellington: Is the substantial rise in Post Office revenue sought largely required to
meet the massive increases in wages and salaries?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: In the 1977-78 year we predict very substantial cost increases,
particularly for wage and salary payments but also for import costs, additional depreciation,
and extra interest. The important point is that, taking into account the actions of the
Government up to and including last night's charges, the Post Office is now in a far sounder
position, and has the capacity to make a significant contribution to its capital programme.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1575 (#31) ############################################

22 July
1575
Oral Answers to Questions
Masterton Gas Company
4. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Will he
confirm the report in the June issue of Gas News that, "substitute natural gas (SNG) has
been produced in an eleventh-hour attempt to save the Masterton gas undertaking from
extinction", and the further quote of Mr D. Craven, commercial manager of the Natural Gas
Corporation that, "We have proved the system: all that remains is the political decision as to
whether the Masterton gas undertaking should be rescued"; and, if this is the case, will the
political decision be taken and conveyed to the Masterton undertaking before 31 October,
when the gasworks is due to close?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): An experimental unit using propane
as a feedstock has shown that technically a substitute natural gas can be produced success-
fully by this method. However, as far as I am aware, the Masterton Borough Council is not
intending to reconsider its decision to close the gasworks.
Hon. F. M. Colman: In view of the Minister's reply and the claim by the commercial
manager of the Natural Gas Corporation that it is a viable proposition, and also in view of
the need to make the best possible utilisation of energy resources, will the Minister not
impress upon those who make the decision that the proposal should be undertaken?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: Perhaps it would be appropriate to give the honourable member a
little more background to this project. An experimental propane air carburettor for
producing substitute natural gas has been operated successfully at the Masterton gasworks.
Although the technical aspects of this method of producing gas are well known, other
matters need to be taken into account in determining whether such a system is feasible,
including the cost of propane or butane as a feedstock, the state of the reticulation system,
and the cost of converting gas appliances. It is by no means obvious that in the situation at
Masterton a system based on SNG from propane air would be an economic proposition. It is
clear that, even if the economic viability of the system were established, arrangements for
the financing and installation of the plant required for upgrading reticulation and for
appliance conversion to be completed would take some time-time which, given the present
state of the operation and the costs being incurred, is not available.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Perhaps I could draw the attention of honourable members
and Ministers to the fact that questions and replies should be concise.
Mr Friedlander: Can the Minister confirm that the Government is currently giving
consideration to establishing an LPG plant which would supply New Zealand's needs,
including those of Masterton, and that this would therefore be a factor to be taken into
consideration?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I can confirm that the Government has a major LPG study under
review at the moment. Some of the implications will need to be discussed with the partners in
the oil industry, but I am hopeful that in time—and I fear it may be some months—a very
useful new development in the field will be announced.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Magistrate's Court, Papakura
5. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Justice: What, if any,
improvements in staffing have been implemented at the Papakura Magistrate's Court since
December 1975?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): Approval to fill two additional positions
was given earlier this month. One is a clerical position and the second a position as terminal
operator for the Wanganui computer centre system. These have been the only increases in
staffing since 1974, when there was a comprehensive review of staffing and the establishment
fixed at a level sufficient to meet the needs of the office, but there has been a subsequent
review of the grading of the registrar's position. As a consequence of this, a more senior
appointment has been made.
Mr Wellington: Can the Minister confirm that the appointment of additional staff has
been due to the vastly increased work load of the Papakura Magistrate's Court, which serves
a rapidly growing area, and that the increases approved were effected promptly upon receipt
of information about the changed circumstances in that city?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes, I can confirm that the volume of work in the office has
increased since the last inspection. The member asked whether that was the reason for the
appointment. I can assure him too that I was seized of the importance of making the


## p. 1576 (#32) ############################################

1576
22 July
Oral Answers to Questions
appointments by the representations made by the member representing the Manurewa
electorate. Indeed, I believe further appointments will need to be made as soon as the staff
are available.
Hon. M. Rata: Are we to understand that the appointments to the Papakura office of a
clerk and an officer presumably trained in the computer centre were made as the net result of
representations made by the member concerned, and, if so, why?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I am afraid that the member for Northern Maori has
misapprehended my answer. I said that the appointments were made because of the work
load-in other words, the needs of the office—which was drawn to my attention by the
strong representation made on behalf of the staff of the office by the member for Manurewa.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Foster Care Study
6. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can
he say when the Department of Social Welfare study on foster care will be completed, and
whether the results of that study will be made public?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): The Department of Social Welfare's
foster care study is a major piece of research, which has three data collection phases. The
first began early in the year, and the third phase will be completed by the end of August.
Some preliminary results will be available to myself and to the Department of Social Welfare
by late November or December of this year, but the full analysis of all the matters covered by
the research will not be completed until about mid-1978. It is intended to publish a report on
the results.
Hon. Michael Connelly: If it was known that the study would take so long, why did the
Government delay getting it under way for more than 12 months?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I am not aware of any delay other than the time it took to carry
out the necessary preparations. I can assure the honourable member that the report will be
produced as expeditiously as possible, and I shall be very happy to present him with a copy
immediately it comes to hand.
Mr Downie: Can the Minister explain the scope of the research being carried out, and
say whether the Labour Government, when in office, took any action in this area?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I cannot allow that supplementary question. The original
question was, "Can he say when the Department of Social Welfare study on foster care will
be completed?" The Minister gave the answer, and said that it will be completed in stages
and finally about mid-1978. In the second part of the question the Minister was asked
whether the results of that study would be made public, and he said yes, they would be.
There is not much else to ask really, is there?
Hon. H. J. Walker: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I should like to make the
point that I believe the first part of the supplementary question asked by the member was
valid in that it related to the scope of the report, even if the other part of the question could
not be permitted.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: No. I have said that I would not allow the supplementary
question. If we are to have supplementary questions they must be related to the answer
given. If they are not related to the answer given I will not allow them.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Farm Settlement Blocks, Wairarapa
7. Mr COUCH (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Lands: What area of Crown land is
being developed for farm settlement blocks in the Wairarapa land district?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Minister of Fisheries): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Lands.
The Department of Lands and Survey is currently developing in the Wairarapa district 7598
ha of Crown land, which is expected to be subdivided into 7 sheep and 23 dairy farms.
Mr Couch: How many farm lots will be coming up for ballot in the Wairarapa this year?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: The information I have is that one dairy farm will be settled in the
Wairarapa this year.
Hon. M. Rata: How long will it be before final settlement takes place?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: Is the member asking how long it will be before all the Crown land
in the Wairarapa is settled?
Hon. M. Rata: Yes.


## p. 1577 (#33) ############################################

22 July
1577
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: Obviously I do not have that information with me, but, with the
accelerated land settlement programme introduced of 55 Crown farms this year, the
Wairarapa will benefit.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Wanganui Education Board—Administrative Grant
8. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the
observation in the Wanganui Education Board's annual report to 31 January 1977 that
"despite submission of a realistic budget to the department early in 1976 the board was not
formally notified until 7 January 1977 of the amount of the administration grant which was
approved for the financial year which ended 3 weeks later", and, if so, can he explain this
lengthy delay?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I have seen the report referred to and,
although it is true that approved grants for 1976-77 were not notified until 7 January 1977, I
am sure the board will know, through its membership of the Education Boards Assocation,
the reasons for the apparent delay. There are 10 education boards, and their grants are
considered on a national basis and have regard to the provisions made in the annual
estimates of expenditure of my department. Discussion was held with representatives of the
Education Boards Association as to the levels considered reasonable for each board, bearing
in mind the results of operations in the previous year. Two boards did not supply the latter
information until August 1976, despite repeated reminders. An additional factor contribut-
ing to the apparent delay was the need to take account of increases of salaries, which
comprise 80 percent of boards' administrative costs. The Wanganui Education Board and
others did not supply the estimated cost of the 25 June 1976 salary order until October 1976.
A further point worth recording is that the total amount shown in the Budget announced on
29 July 1976 for the administration grant for all boards was $5.84 million. This was an
increase of nearly 25 percent over the 1975-76 expenditure, and I believe it would have been
reasonable, because of the national picture, for boards generally to expect an increase of this
size.
Mr Marshall: Can the Minister say when the boards will be notified of their final
administration grants for 1977-78?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I know we are fairly close to being able to give a satisfactory
answer, but I would point out that in last night's Budget there was an indication that the
amount for the year will be $6.8 million, representing an increase of 18 percent, so boards
can do the same sort of estimating they could have done last year and assume that that will be
about the order of the increase this year.
Mr Wellington: Is the determination of administration grants for education boards not a
very protracted exercise in any event, and has the Minister received this year, although he is
probably reluctant to say so, a letter from the Education Boards Association congratulating
him on the speed with which grants have been announced and made available?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: That is correct in respect of incidental grants. The administra-
tion grant is more complex, but the Government undertakes to see that education boards
carry out efficient administration. Some of the restraints imposed upon the Government
itself are being imposed on education boards, and this makes for some complicated
discussions.
Mr Marshall: Would the Minister not agree with the further contention in the Wanganui
Education Board's annual report that if the grants cannot be announced until January it is
rather futile for his department to send letters to the education boards on 12 May-8 months
before-instructing them that "financial allocations must not be overspent”?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I do not see any discrepancy in that. As the member has quoted
from the Wanganui Education Board's report, I would remind him that the report also
states, in respect of the board's administration grant, that early predictions on severe
financial cutback proved to be overstated, and there was no requirement to restrict activity
to the point where essential services to the schools would have been seriously impaired.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Subsidies-Removal
9. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Finance: Has he seen the Labour
Party advertisement in the Wanganui Herald dated 21 May 1977, which states, "We are told


## p. 1578 (#34) ############################################

1578
22 July
Oral Answers to Questions
that the removal of subsidies and increased Government charges are to help New Zealand's
economy", and, if so, will he state what subsidies have been removed since December 1972,
what their value was, and for what reasons they were removed?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Finance. The list is fairly long, and I propose to round off amounts to the first
decimal point. The Minister of Finance replies as follows: "No, I have not seen the I abour
Party advertisement referred to in the question. Subsidies removed since December 1972
and their cost in the last full year of the subsidy are: bread, $5.6 million in 1975–76; eggs,
$1.7 million in 1975-76; flour, $20.2 million in 1975-76, meat, $10.6 million in 1973-74; sugar,
$11.6 million in 1973-74; wool, $21.8 million in 1973-74; Post Office, $38 million in 1975-76;
Railways, $68.5 million in 1975-76; and Electricity, $13 million in 1975-76. The subsidies on
bread, eggs, flour, and sugar were removed to allow the price of these products to reflect
their true cost of production; those on sheepmeat and wool to increase the price on the
domestic market to the level of export returns; and those on the Post Office, Railways, and
Electricity to increase the prices of these services from the artificially low levels at which they
had been held to nearer the true cost to the community of providing them."
Mr Downie: Can the Minister confirm that a user-pay policy is essential to re-establish
stability to the economy following 3 years of Labour's mismanagement?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I cannot allow that question because it seeks an
opinion. I ask all members to brush up on the Standing Orders, because there are
fundamental things we need to know about questions.
Mr Friedlander: Can the Minister confirm that the subsidies to which he referred-on
bread, eggs, flour, meat, sugar, and wool-were removed by a Labour Government?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The particular ones I referred to have been removed
by this Government, although the Labour Government did remove some subsidies away
back in its dim past history.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Will the Minister confirm that the cuts in subsidy under his
Government, with the object of reflecting the true cost of production he mentioned, and also
the increased charges levied by his Government, had the effect of cutting the family
purchasing power and forcing up prices?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: That supplementary question is barely relevant. We can have
a whole debate about this matter if we want to, but I am not allowed to permit it under the
Standing Orders, which are quite clear and state that supplementary questions may be asked
simply to elucidate further information in relation to the original question-not bits tagged
on.
Hon. Michael Connelly: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. The Minister said that
the objective of cutting subsidies was to reflect the true cost of production, and the original
question refers to the removal of subsidies and increased Government charges. That was the
basis of my supplementary question.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am quite aware of the content of the Minister's reply and of
the member's supplementary question, the repetition of which makes no difference to my
original ruling that it was not in elucidation of the original answer. Some members are
getting into a bad habit of questioning rulings. A lot of time could be spent doing that, but in
my opinion it is highly disorderly and undesirable. When a ruling has been given members
should accept it. There are constitutional methods of drawing the Speaker's attention to the
fact that the House does not like a ruling, but the continual challenging of rulings only leads
to delay in the proceedings of the House and that is quite undesirable. In a game of cricket or
football when a decision has been given and the referee has blown his whistle we get on with
the game, and when a ruling has been given here we should get on with the debate.
Mr Downie: Was the removal of these subsidies related to the stabilising of the
economy?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The answer is in the affirmative. I should particu-
larly like to emphasise that had the Government not done these and some other things the
deficit before borrowing would have increased to $1,400 million instead of being $506
million.
Hon. M. Rata: The Minister has indicated his reasons for removing the subsidies,
particularly in the last 2 years, but would he state whether it is tended to restore them to
ease the burden on families?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The answer to that question lies in the Budget.
Provision is made in the Budget for people on low incomes, and that is more practical and
effective than loading subsidies on to the taxpayer.


## p. 1579 (#35) ############################################

22 July
1579
Oral Answers to Questions
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Maori Language Teachers
10. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the
fact that the Department of Education recruitment booklet for 1977 merely states that “a
course of secondary teacher training for Maori language teachers may be held at certain
teachers' colleges in 1978", how does he reconcile this with the National Party's promise in
the full 1975 manifesto to expand the present 1-year Maori language/Maori studies courses
so that those qualifying can also teach in primary and intermediate schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): Special measures were introduced last
year to expand opportunities for graduates of the 1 year adult Maori language course to
qualify to teach in primary and intermediate schools as well as in secondary schools. These
measures are set down in the Education Gazette of 2 December 1976. Of the 44 students who
entered the 1974 course and became eligible for certification at the end of 1976, 14 were
awarded a general teaching certificate. A further 20 who were awarded a specialist
certificate, have received advice about additional courses they would need to take to teach in
primary and intermediate schools if they wish to do so.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Brucellosis and Tb Eradication Schemes-Staff Numbers
11. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Could he tell the
House the number of staff employed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in
brucellosis and tuberculosis eradication schemes in testing, analysing, and administration,
compared with the number in the past 3 years?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Associate Minister of Agriculture): I reply on behalf of the
Minister of Agriculture. Ministry staff employed either full-time or part-time in relation to
the on-farm testing, laboratory testing, and administration functions of the brucellosis and
tuberculosis disease eradication schemes for the current season totals 633. Staff employed
over the previous three seasons number as follows: for 1973-74, 646; for 1974-75, 689; and
for 1975-76, 673.
Mr Falloon: Has the load of testing work done by the staff been reduced or increased in
the last year compared with the previous 3 years?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER: From the background notes I have I am not sure I can give that
information. The facts I have indicate that over the 4-year period 13 800 000 cattle were
tested for Tb and 15 700 000 for brucellosis. I cannot say whether the work load for the staff
employed on that has increased in the last year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Nuclear Bomb Testing at Muraroa
12. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: What steps
has the New Zealand Government taken to indicate New Zealand's opposition to the
conducting of nuclear bomb tests in the South Pacific by the French Government at
Muraroa?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs): Since the
French Government commenced underground testing in 1975, following the cessation of
atmospheric tests, the New Zealand Government has viewed the conducting of each test
with the same regret with which it has witnessed underground tests carried out by each of the
other four nuclear weapon states. There is a difference between atmospheric tests, which
pose greater environmental hazards—which a multilateral treaty, the partial test ban treaty,
was designed to prohibit-and underground tests which every nuclear weapon state has
continued to conduct in the absence of any proscriptive multilateral treaty. New Zealand
does not, therefore, single out France for condemnation, but rather condemns all nuclear
testing by all states in all environments—
Mr Hunt: What about the Pacific Ocean?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: In reply to the interjection I was saying, but rather
condemns all nuclear testing by all states in all environments-and that includes the Pacific
Ocean-and has urged the nuclear weapon states to conclude a comprehensive test ban
treaty as a matter of urgency. I shall arrange for the honourable member to receive a copy of


## p. 1580 (#36) ############################################

1580
22 July
Oral Answers to Questions
the Government's latest statement on the subject of a comprehensive test ban treaty as soon
as it is available at an early date.
Mr Prebble: In view of the fact that only the French Government is conducting nuclear
tests in the South Pacific, have National Ministers taken the opportunity, when they have
been in France, to indicate New Zealand's opposition to the nuclear tests still being
conducted in the Pacific?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The French Government has been made well aware
of New Zealand's opposition to nuclear testing in the Pacific and elsewhere.
Mr Prebble: Could the Minister answer the question I asked-whether National
Ministers have taken the opportunity when they have been in France to express our
opposition to that country's testing programme?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I have answered that question several times already.
In my original answer I said that the Government opposes nuclear testing wherever it is
carried out, including of course the Pacific. No special emphasis is placed on the Pacific-
Mr Hunt: There should be.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The member for New Lynn is entitled to his view,
but the Government's view is that nuclear testing is bad anywhere, and should be opposed.
The Government is not interested only in the Pacific, but is interested in the people of the
world.
Mr Prebble: I have listened very carefully to the Minister's answer, but I still find it
difficult to understand. The simple question I asked was whether National Ministers, when
they have been in France, have expressed New Zealand's opposition to France's nuclear
testing.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: In answer to a supplementary question I said we had
informed the French Government of our views on nuclear testing throughout the world.
"Throughout the world" means the Pacific and the rest of the world. Ministers always refer
to the Government's opposition to the testing carried out by the five countries concerned,
which includes France but does not single out France. I do not think I can make my answer
much clearer than that.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Telephone Exchanges-Temporary Installations, Auckland
13. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What is the
expected capacity of the four temporary telephone exchanges to be installed later this year in
Auckland?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Postmaster-General. The four transportable telephone exchanges have recently been
ordered and will be installed progressively from late this year. The capacity of Howick is
1000 lines, and Massey, Browns Bay, and Torbay 1600 lines each.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Can the Minister confirm that the waiting time for telephone
connections in the Massey area will be reduced by 2 years as a result of these temporary
exchanges?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The five transportable exchanges will have a total
capacity of 7400 lines, which will become available 2 years earlier than the earliest possible
permanent relief programmes in these localities.
Mr Wellington: With the Post Office in a much sounder financial position, following
losses in the years 1973 to 1975, can the Minister confirm that the installation of new
subscriber lines is its top social priority?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: In fairness, that is a difficult question to answer on
behalf of my colleague. I should think his answer would be in the affirmative, and I certainly
hope it would be. At present I am making strong representations to him on behalf of country
districts in the Waikato electorate.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: In view of the Minister's last remark, and based on the member's
introduction to his question, why is it necessary to increase postal charges?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: It is necessary to increase postal charges to
introduce a positive policy that the user and not the taxpayer pays for services provided for
the State. The Government was elected on that policy, which has been accepted by the
people, and they will vote this Government into office again on the same basis.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: Is it not a fact that in its first year of office the Government reduced
the capital expenditure of the Post Office by over 35 percent, which has made it necessary to


## p. 1581 (#37) ############################################

22 July
1581
Oral Answers to Questions
introduce temporary exchanges?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: Government expenditure in many sectors was
reduced to avert an all-time record deficit before borrowing of $1,000 million, rising to
$1,400 million. This Government has grasped the nettle and brought Government finances
back into some order, and I believe the electorate supports this.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: The Opposition obviously did not hear the answer to question 3. Is it
correct that the capital development programme of the Post Office is funded from Post
Office revenue, and that when this Government took office the Post Office was running at
such a loss that it could not carry out capital expenditure programmes?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The answer is yes, and the amount referred to was
$38 million.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Ministerial Private Secretaries-Women Employed
14. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: How many women
are in the corps of ministerial private secretaries?
Mr COMBER (Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the Minister of Internal Affairs): I
reply on behalf of the Minister of Internal Affairs. There have been no women in the corps
of ministerial private secretaries since the retirement of Miss E. M. Mansfield on 31 March
1970.
Mr Hunt: In view of the Minister's reply, and taking the point that this has happened
under both the Labour Government and the National Government, is it not about time that
sex discrimination was ended immediately?
Mr SPEAKER: That question has nothing whatever to do with elucidation of the
answer.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is the Under-Secretary not aware that when I was Minister of
Civil Aviation I was greatly assisted by a woman private secretary, Miss Ishbel McTavish?
Mr COMBER: Yes, I am, and I am sure that the member, as was his National
Government predecessor, was well served by the lady in question. The original question
referred to the corps of ministerial secretaries. The position of principal private secretary is
in a different category.
Mr Latter: Has any approach to join the corps of ministerial secretaries been made by
women; if so, and if there has been discrimination against them, would the Under-Secretary
not agree that the Human Rights Commission Bill, brought in by the National Government,
is the vehicle that would prevent any discrimination and if there have not been any
approaches, and it is a phantom question, will the Under-Secretary liaise with my colleague
the member for Western Hutt so that he can add it to his collection of phantom stories?
Mr SPEAKER: I think this is not only not in elucidation but is bordering on the
frivolous.
Mr Hunt: I should like to use part of the question of the member for Marlborough,
before it rendered itself out of order. Have any approaches been made to the appropriate
Minister by women private secretaries who are not in the corps, and has the Minister any
intention of acting before the Human Rights Commission comes into effect?
Mr COMBER: To my knowledge no such approach has been made. I have no
information to make me think otherwise, and certainly if a woman was in a position to accept
appointment to the corps of ministerial secretaries I am sure no bar would be put in her way
by this Government, even before the implementation of the Human Rights Commission
Act.
Mr Hunt: In view of the very encouraging reply by the Under-Secretary that there
seems to be no reason why an appointment should not be made, will he be advising women
private secretaries in Ministers' offices, from the Prime Minister's office downwards, who
are not in the secretarial corps to apply so that this discriminatory practice can be ended?
Mr COMBER: I do not see it as a discriminatory practice at all, but in keeping with the
Government's policy of ensuring that there is no discrimination I do not think we could act
on the member's suggestion because to do so would be to discriminate in favour of women.
We would like to think that both men and women in these positions have equal rights under
the law.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1582 (#38) ############################################

1582
22 July
Oral Answers to Questions
QUESTION-CORRECTION
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): With the leave of
the House, I should like to correct a supplementary answer I gave to question 9. As a
supplementary question the member for New Plymouth asked: "Could the Minister confirm
that the subsidies to which he referred-on bread, eggs, flour, meat, sugar, and wool—were
removed by a Labour Government?" My reply was: "The particular ones I referred to have
been removed by this Government, although the Labour Government did remove some
subsidies a way back in its dim past history." My answer was correct in respect to the
subsidies on bread, eggs, and flour, but the subsidies on meat, sugar, and wool, to which I
referred in my original answer, were removed by the Labour Government in 1973-74.
FREE-CALLING TELEPHONE SERVICES
Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel): I am directed by the Petitions Committee to present the
report of the committee on the petition of G. W. Hawkins and 5088 others, praying that this
House request the Postmaster-General to investigate the circumstances under which the
provision of a free-calling service for the residents of Papakura, Manurewa, and surrounding
districts has been deferred. The committee recommends that the petition be referred to the
Government for favourable consideration. I move, That the report do lie upon the table, and
be referred to the Government for favourable consideration.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau): On behalf of the petitioners, I thank the Petitions
Committee for the consideration it gave to the petition. I know they will be grateful for the
recommendation, but will regret the fact that because of the delay in considering the petition
the recommendation will accomplish very little.
Motion agreed to.
CITIZENS AND ALIENS BILL
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I am directed by the Statutes Revision Committee to present
the report of the committee on the Citizens and Aliens Bill. The committee recommends
that the Bill be allowed to proceed as amended. I move, That the report do lie upon the table.
The Bill was introduced at the beginning of the present session, and consolidates and amends
the British Nationality and New Zealand Citizenship Act 1948 and the Aliens Act of that
same year. The Statutes Revision Committee received six submissions, all of which
supported, and in some cases warmly applauded, the Bill. However, several matters
emerged, either from the submissions or from consideration of the Bill, and I comment upon
those that were of some substance and particularly those on which the committee recom-
mends some amendment.
First, clause 8(1) authorises the Minister of Internal Affairs to grant New Zealand
citizenship to any person who has attained the age of 16 years. Both the National Council of
Women and the Committee on Women suggested in their submissions that a change of
citizenship is something too important for a 16-year-old to be able to undertake on his or her
own, bearing in mind that there are still special provisions for an application by or on behalf
of a minor contained in clause 9 of the Bill. Both organisations recommended that the age
should be increased to 18 years. After careful consideration, and particularly bearing in mind
the provisions of the Guardianship Act, which provides some jurisdiction in respect of
minors up to the age of 18 years, the committee agrees with this view and, with respect to
clause 8(1), and in all other cases except one in the Bill, recommends that references to the
age of 16 years be amended to 18 years.
Secondly, the Bill as introduced provided that citizenship by descent should be available
only to members of a first generation born outside New Zealand. Clause 9(1)(c) permits the
Minister to grant a certificate of citizenship if, because of exceptional circumstances of a
humanitarian or other nature relating to the applicant, he-the Minister-is satisfied that
granting a certificate of New Zealand citizenship would be in the public interest. The
Salvation Army suggested to the committee that this "first generation only" rule might be
unfair to the families of missionaries, and the committee is equally satisfied that this might
apply to the families of academics, who spend much of their lives outside New Zealand,
where they have citizenship, and could apply to other groups as well. It was originally
suggested to the committee that clause 9(1)(c) gave sufficient discretion to the Minister to
deal with this particular problem, but the committee was not satisfied that this was so. The


## p. 1583 (#39) ############################################

22 July
1583
Citizens and Aliens Bill
committee therefore proposes an amendment to permit persons claiming citizenship by
descent to perfect their citizenship and also to allow the Minister to deal with second
generation cases on criteria that are not as rigid as the exceptional circumstances of a
humanitarian nature contemplated by clause 9(1)(c). Consequential amendments are also
proposed to clause 8 to give effect to this particular amendment.
Thirdly, in the transitional provisions of the Bill—that is, clause 12 (c)—provision was
originally made that every person born outside New Zealand on or after 1 January 1949, but
before 1 January 1978, should be a New Zealand citizen by descent if either the father was a
New Zealand citizen at the time of the child's birth, or, in the case of a person born after 1
January 1970-which was the commencement date of the Status of Children's Act 1969-the
mother was a New Zealand citizen at the time of the child's birth. Although this provision,
on the face of it, might appear to be discriminatory, the committee did recognise that it did
nothing more than restate existing New Zealand law. Nonetheless, both the National
Council of Women and the Committee on Women drew attention to the clause, and
suggested that the two subclauses of clause 12(3) should be amalgamated. The effect of this
would be to make all children born outside New Zealand between 1 January 1949 and 1
January 1978 New Zealand citizens, if either parent was himself or herself a New Zealand
citizen. Although such a change would be retrospective in its effect, the committee did not
find this in itself objectionable, because it would in no way be detrimental to the rights of a
potential citizen; in fact, it conferred a right rather than taking it away.
However, the proposal would give rise to certain problems unless it was made without
some qualifications. Persons with citizenship in another country could well find themselves,
as a result of the proposal put forward by the two women's organisations, in a situation of
dual citizenship that might well be illegal in another country. The committee therefore
proposes an amendment not to amalgamate the two sublcauses, but rather to permit a grant
of citizenship to be made as of right-that is, without any ministerial discretion-on
application from any person born outside New Zealand before 1 January 1978, if either
parent was a New Zealand citizen. That proposed amendment removes the discrimination
that is inherent in clause 12(3) as far as that is possible. The new clause will become clause
9A.
Finally, the Minister of Internal Affairs has advised the committee of possible changes
to the law relating to aliens, which are at present contained principally in Part III of the Bill.
The committee was originally invited by the Minister to delete all provisions in the Bill that
might refer to aliens, but after further consultation with the Minister of Internal Affairs it
decided this action was not appropriate as a final policy decision has yet to be made. The
matter can, if necessary, be dealt with by a Supplementary Order Paper during the course of
the Committee stage of the Bill, in which case the Bill would become a Citizens Bill rather
than a Citizens and Aliens Bill.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): The Opposition agrees that reforms are needed for
the registration of citizens and aliens. When the Opposition examined the Bill it found it
unsatisfactory in many ways. The law relating to citizenship and aliens is complex and
changes can have a very wide effect, because the law of other countries must be taken into
consideration. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that there was disagreement
between the committee members about many aspects of the Bill. Citizenship is a very
important right, governed by many international laws, and to lose one's citizenship can have
a disastrous effect upon a person and his family. No country should lightly make any person
stateless. The United Nations has passed a resolution about this.
For many people this is probably one of the most important pieces of legislation that will
ever be put through Parliament. I draw the attention of the House to the fact that rights held
by citizens are normally protected by our courts or by some special tribunal, and that
Parliament has recognised that a politician, even though he may be acting in good faith,
should not have absolute discretion over the rights and liberties of the citizens of New
Zealand. However, clauses 8 and 9 give the Minister, in a number of instances, absolute
discretion on whether or not to grant citizenship. We made it very clear at the committee,
and we divided on the matter, that the Minister should not have this absolute discretion,
because there is no obligation on him to give his reasons. In fact, a Minister could properly
refuse the status of citizenship to a person who should be granted New Zealand citizenship,
and that person would be left without any recourse. That is wrong. We made it clear at the
committee that it is wrong, and advocated as strongly as we could that there should be a right
of appeal.
Appeal rights for citizens have been established in other countries, and have worked


## p. 1584 (#40) ############################################

1584
22 July
Citizens and Aliens Bill
very well. I believe there is an overwhelming case for the setting up of appeal rights so that a
person who is turned down when he applies for citizenship can receive a fair hearing before a
court or a special tribunal, and get a decision on properly laid down and properly known
criteria. The right to be a New Zealand citizen should not be decided on secret criteria, and
the decision should be open to appeal. For that reason I believe that this report should not be
accepted. Frankly, I think it should be sent back to the committee, and I intend so to move. I
shall do so for two other reasons. The committee considered very carefully the taking of an
oath of allegiance by someone who becomes a New Zealand citizen. In the past there has
been a clear division between Commonwealth citizens and aliens. Commonwealth citizens
owe allegiance to the Queen. We have changed our constitution, and the Queen is now
Queen of New Zealand under a special Act of Parliament.
Mr Comber: A point or order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to the fact that we are
debating the reporting back of a Bill from a select committee. I have been listening carefully
to the member for Auckland Central and he is obviously traversing the field not only of the
Bill itself but also of what he imagines are constitutional rights in other legislation. I feel his
attention should be drawn to the fact that this is a relatively narrow debate. We are debating
whether or not the report should be tabled, and I do not think that allows the member to
traverse the field he has been covering.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Quite contrary to the suggestion that there will be other
opportunities for the member for Auckland Central to do what he wants to do now, and that
he is improperly taking advantage of a situation, this is the only occasion open to him to
report on what he wants to report on-namely, the proceedings that took place in the
committee itself, and the points that were raised there that proved to be unacceptable to
Government members of the committee, and are therefore not in the Bill and will not be
open for discussion on the second reading. This is the only opportunity the member will have
to record the views that were expressed at the committee, and the outcome of the discussion
there.
Mr PREBBLE: Speaking to the point of order, I think I can clarify the matter for you,
Mr Speaker, and for the member for Wellington Central, by referring to clause 10, which
provides for an oath of allegiance to be taken. There is also a schedule that sets out the form
of that oath. This was discussed at great length at the committee, and a number of
recommendations were made. An instruction was given to the chairman of the committee to
refer specifically to our discussion when he was reporting back, and to bring it to the
attention of members of the House who may want to make a different decision from that
which the committee came to.
Hon. David Thomson: With great respect to the opinion of my colleague, the member
for Wellington Central, I still think that, as the member for Auckland Central has indicated
his intention of moving the return of the Bill to the select committee, he should have the
opportunity on the reporting back to canvass his reasons for wanting to do so. Although his
argument may have sounded more like a second reading argument, I think in the circum-
stances he should be heard.
Mr McLay: Mr Speaker, as the chairman of the select committee I should explain that
one aspect of what the member for Auckland Central said is correct. Quite by oversight, I
omitted in my report to the House to mention the committee's view, which is not contained
in the Bill as reported back, on clause 10. I shall certainly cover that in my reply. I would,
however, as chairman of the committee, draw to your attention that the decision of the
committee to report clause 10 back in its present form was unanimous.
Mr SPEAKER: The question before the House is that the report do lie upon the table. It
is, however, customary in debating such a question to permit, as indicated by the Minister of
Justice, mention of matters traversed at the hearings of the committee, and particularly so if
there is a proposal to move that a matter be returned to the committee. It might perhaps be
more strictly relevant if the amendment were moved, and these points raised in support of
the amendment, but I think I should be making too fine a distinction if I insisted on that. A
broad-ranging discussion would be out of order, but, if this refers to what happened at the
committee, I think it is properly material and can be advanced now.
Mr PREBBLE: I want to tell the House that careful consideration was given by the
committee to the question of whether an oath should be taken. The basis of the considera-
tion was that the Queen is now Queen of New Zealand, as opposed to Queen of the
Commonwealth. In the past, an oath was not required from Commonwealth citizens,
because they already owed allegiance to the Queen. However, a Commonwealth citizen
living in New Zealand does not owe allegiance to the Queen as Queen of New Zealand. A


## p. 1585 (#41) ############################################

22 July
1585
Citizens and Aliens Bill
Supreme Court case has determined that in fact the Queen of New Zealand is separate from
the Queen of Australia, even though she is the same person. While the chairman is correct in
saying that a unanimous decision was reached to the effect that the Minister does not have to
make an oath obligatory, members of the House may not agree with that decision. It was a
compromise decision, and I certainly did not agree with some of the arguments raised in
favour of it.
The main argument raised by the Department of Internal Affairs was that it believed it
was impossible to ask everybody to make an oath of allegiance. The Department of Social
Welfare makes an oath compulsory before a solo parent can receive a domestic purposes
benefit-and there are thousands of such people at the moment. I believe that if an oath is
compulsory before a solo parent receives a benefit, the right of New Zealand citizenship
should not be conferred without the taking of such an oath. Every member of Parliament has
to swear an oath before becoming a member, and every lawyer has to swear one before
becoming a practising lawyer. Possibly the committee could consider that matter again, and I
should be interested to know members' views.
Another matter that concerns me is what I believe to be an improper use of the
committee. In a letter directed to the chairman of the Statutes Revision Committee, which
was never in fact tabled at the committee, the Minister of Internal Affairs said that large
sections of the Bill would not be proceeded with. The committee was therefore left in the
extraordinary position of being asked to deliberate upon something that it did not know was
to be the Government's policy. The committee was not prepared to accept that letter, and
the Minister of Justice suggested to his fellow Minister that a Supplementary Order Paper
was the proper course of action. I strongly suggest that the Bill should remain before the
committee until the Minister can make up his mind, because considerations about alien
registration should be dealt with by the committee and not changed by a Supplementary
Order Paper. For that reason alone, the Bill should not be proceeded with.
Members on this side of the House have serious reservations about the requirements
placed on aliens, and to some extent on New Zealand citizens. I remind members that New
Zealand citizens are not penalised because they do not carry documents of identification.
The committee was not prepared to accept the original proposal that New Zealand citizens
should carry such documentation, for which I believe there is no need. I move, as an
amendment, That all the words after "That" be deleted and the following words substituted,
"the Citizens and Aliens Bill be referred back to the Statutes Revision Committee for further
consideration of the status of aliens, and to further consider appeal rights.”
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn) seconded the amendment.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): I was extremely disappointed in the speech of the member
for Auckland Central. Surely, as a member of the Statutes Revision Committee, he would be
interested in trying to introduce better legislation. To suggest that the Minister of Internal
Affairs was being discourteous when he foreshadowed the possible introduction of legisla-
tion misrepresents, or purports to misrepresent, the position. It was nothing but a matter of
courtesy, and an example of the open government that this Government favours. I am not
allowed to accuse a member of deliberately misrepresenting a situation, but the member for
Auckland Central went perilously close to that when he talked about the considerations of
this matter, and of the other clauses of the Bill before the select committee.
Mr T. J. Young: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Is it in order for a member to use a
backhanded way of trying to overcome the Standing Orders, and say exactly what he is not
allowed to say? He said that he knew it would not be in order for him to say that the member
for Auckland Central had deliberately misrepresented a situation, but that he would say
something else instead. I suggest that that use of words would be against the Standing
Orders, even in a backhanded way.
Hon. David Thomson: The member for Rangiora made it quite clear that he was not
charging the member for Auckland Central with deliberate, knowing, misrepresentation-I
think the member for Hutt has recognised that-but he did say that the member for
Auckland Central went perilously close to it. That is a statement of opinion by the member
for Rangiora, which the next speaker on the Opposition side may, if he wishes, refute. If he
does, then I will bring evidence from the proceedings of the select committee in support of
the member for Rangiora. He did not charge any member of the House with deliberate
misrepresentation, which would be quite outside Standing Orders; but he did chide the
member for Auckland Central with coming perilously close to it, which is within the
2-Vol. 412


## p. 1586 (#42) ############################################

1586
22 July
Citizens and Aliens Bill
Standing Orders.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not recall the exact detail of what was said, but I think I should
disallow any direct unparliamentary expression introduced by way of saying, "It would not
be in order to say so-and-so, so I will not say it", which implies, "But that is what I mean."
On the other hand, if the statement was merely that someone went close to breaching a
Standing Order, or doing something that would be out of order, that would be a separate
matter. As I do not recall the exact remark, I leave it to the member to avoid any repetition,
and he may see fit to withdraw the suggestion if he said it would be out of order, so I shall not
say it for that reason. However, if he just said that he went close to saying something that
was out of order, that is a different matter.
Mr QUIGLEY: At the outset of his address, the member for Auckland Central said that
it would be a very serious matter indeed for a person to lose his citizenship. I made my
previous remark because he then suggested that the Bill provided such a person with no
opportunity to request that the Minister's decision be reviewed. I refer the member for
Auckland Central specifically to clause 18, headed "Court review of grounds for depriving
person of citizenship". As the member for Auckland Central knows perfectly well, clause
18(2) gives the Supreme Court the power to review an order of the Minister if the Minister
intends to deprive a person of citizenship. That is stated clearly in the Bill, and, as I have
already mentioned, the member for Auckland Central knows that perfectly well. As has
already been pointed out, that suggests that not only is the member for Auckland Central
not interested in the measure; he has not even bothered to read it.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 1 p.m.


## p. 1587 (#43) ############################################

26 July
1587
Privilege
TUESDAY, 26 JULY 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 7.30 p.m.
Prayers.
PRIVILEGE
Mr SPEAKER: This might be a convenient moment to refer to a matter of privilege
raised on Friday of last week. At that time, notice was given of intention to move a motion
expressing concern at what was suggested had been a leak of the contents of the Budget.
Thereupon, the question was raised by the Prime Minister whether the newspaper article in
question, which appeared on the front page of the Dominion of 21 July, might constitute a
breach of privilege. This I have now to decide.
First, I should state that the well established principle of the inviolability of the Budget
in our British type of parliamentary and Executive government is a Cabinet or Executive
matter as opposed to one of parliamentary privilege, or its converse, contempt. In
November 1947, the then Chancellor of the Exchequer in Great Britain admitted having
indiscreetly mentioned to a pressman an important matter in the Budget about to be
delivered; he thereupon resigned. But the question of privilege was not even raised at that
time in the House of Commons, or in connection with the affair. The reason for the principle
of inviolability is, of course, concern lest prior knowledge of intended changes in such things
as tax rates might lead to improper buying and selling of shares or of commodities, with
improper gains to those in the know; but, as I have said, this is distinct from the question of
parliamentary privilege.
If, however, it happened that a document or statement intended for first promulgation
in Parliament was improperly obtained or intercepted and then published before its
promulgation in Parliament, or if an embargo were broken with similar effect, then it might
well be argued that there had been a breach of parliamentary privilege. The only document
in the present case that could be affected is the Budget, or, as it is more correctly called, the
Financial Statement, but the newspaper article in question seemed to make it clear that its
writers were not in possession of the Budget.
This seems an instance of the usual pre-Budget guessing game, and, in this instance, it
appears to have been mostly well done; but the presence of bad as well as good guesses and
the complete omission of allusion to various matters that might have been assumed to be of
public or news interest-such as energy policy and on-shore drilling, changes in nursing
training, and the establishment of certain community colleges-make it virtually certain that
the gentlemen making the guesses were not in premature possession of a copy of the Budget,
even though the categorical style used in lieu of some such expression as "it is expected"
gives the superficial impression of a leakage when the guesses happen to be good ones.
The statement in the opening sentence turned out to be correct, but the opening words
of the fifth sentence are, "More novel announcements involve subsidies for maraes. . .".
This though stated categorically, turned out to be a bad guess, because, as far as I have been
able to glean, there is no announcement or reference in the Budget about subsidies to
maraes. Moreover, if there had been, the statement would have been off beam in that there
would have been no novelty. There are two relevant items in the estimates, one for subsidies
for Polynesian community centres and the other for subsidies under the Maori Welfare Act
which are doubtless related to maraes, but these items also appeared in last year's estimates.
The proposed votes are an increase on last year's figures, these having been lower than those
in the previous year.
Next, there is reference to an increased budget for pre-school education. This turned
out to be correct, but the following sentence states, "but it is understood tertiary student
bursaries will not be increased". This turned out to be a bad guess, in that tertiary student
bursaries are, according to the Budget provisions, to be increased by $2 a week next
academic year.
I am therefore satisfied that there is no case to answer based on the improper or
premature obtaining of the Budget document by the writers of the article. I therefore
conclude that there is no case to answer in regard to a breach of parliamentary privilege.
I have two observations to make. The second sentence of the article states: "Political
sources revealed last night that Parliament will take urgency to pass a special Customs Bill
2.


## p. 1588 (#44) ############################################

1588
26 July
Privilege
increasing the Government's bite on tobacco and alcoholic products." A political source is
difficult to define and might easily consist of a member of Parliament, a member of the staff
of Parliament, or even a member of the press gallery. Every experienced member of
Parliament, staff member, or parliamentary reporter knows that, if changes in customs or
excise duties are to be announced in the Budget, it is certain that the Government will seek
urgency to pass the legislation the same evening. However, one can be certain that incorrect
statements were bad guesses, even though categorically expressed. As to statements that
turned out to be correct, one can say only that they might have been based on good guesses
or on information garnered somewhere.
I conclude by saying that there can be no doubt about the importance of avoiding
Budget leaks, and it may well be desired that some inquiry be conducted into the
implications of the words "political sources revealed" and into the question of whether
correct forecasts were the result of some leak or merely the overconfident expression of what
turned out to be good guesses; but I am of the opinion that parliamentary privilege would
not be the appropriate vehicle for such an inquiry.
SELECT COMMITTEE-LEAKAGE OF BUDGET TAXING PROPOSALS
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I seek the leave of the House to move
without notice a motion to set up a select committee to consider allegations of a leakage of
Budget taxing proposals. I have already consulted the Leader of the Opposition, and I
indicated my intention to ask leave accordingly in the event of your ruling being as it was, Mr
Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: I presume there is no objection to this course being followed. There
appears to be none.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I move, That a select committee consisting
of five members be appointed to consider and report upon allegations of a serious leak of Budget
taxing proposals made by the member for Auckland Central in a notice of motion on 22 July,
the committee to consist of Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay, Mr Hunt, Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys, Hon.
David Thomson, and the mover.
Motion agreed to.
APPROPRIATION BILL—FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Adjourned debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
With the leave of the House, it was agreed that the speaking time allowed the first two
speakers be without limit.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): I say at the outset that this so-
called Budget is little more than a document of abject surrender to inflation. One could not
find on any of its 44 pages evidence of one single direct action taken by the Minister of
Finance to come to grips with what he himself has often described as the most important
problem the country faces. It would seem that the author is now keen to accept inflation as
his one and only ally. The Budget exposes the complete frailty of the present Administration
and its failure to govern, and the magnitude of the hoax it perpetrated when it told the
electors in 1975 that it had an economic policy. With the global meanderings of the Minister
of Finance, it would be fair to say that he is a de facto author. However, he has claimed
parenthood for the document, so we shall let it rest there. I believe it can fairly be said that
not since the days of Nero has vanity so loudly demanded to wear the laurels of genius, while
at the same time fiddling a tune of disaster. I wonder if Nero was fiddling the tune of "Rome
the way you want it". New Zealanders who heard that high-sounding resolution in 1975
believed that here was a chance for a dream to be realised.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: They didn't have Mickey Mouse in Rome.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: For the benefit of the Prime Minister, who happens to be
back in the country at the moment, those people have found they have finished up with
something approaching nightmare. I suggest that, in the interests of the people, the
Minister of Finance should hand over his portfolio to one of his colleagues who is prepared
to make some effort to grapple with our problems. Perhaps he could call upon one of the
journalists in the press gallery who seems to have a good track record in predicting what
might be in this document. It is very clear that the Minister of Finance would sooner globe
trot than attempt to sort out the economic tangle he has created in the last 18 months. He has
also created new records; a new record in inflation, announced in the last couple of weeks; a


## p. 1589 (#45) ############################################

26 July
1589
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
new record in industrial unrest.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: Cut it out.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The Minister of Labour is interjecting; I reply by saying
"hear hear", because industrial unrest is costing this country dearly. The Minister of Finance
has created records in overseas borrowing, emigration, and taxation. The National Party
conference was obviously very nervous about taxation, and seemed to feel that the Minister
of Finance had adopted as his slogan, "a tax is the best means of defence".
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: We didn't take a bloody great step backwards.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I have disallowed the great Australian adjective recently. This
might be an appropriate time to mention that I think I was a little unfair to the member who
used that term, because this favoured quotation has been used before. I was busy with
something else, and did not notice it was a quotation when the great Australian adjective
reared its head in the House. I reproved the member, and said I did not think it should be
mentioned in the House. He pointed out that it was a quotation from something said by
another member, but there is a well established ruling that merely quoting someone else
does not make an unparliamentary expression parliamentary. From now on, I intend to
disallow the great Australian adjective, whether or not it is in a quotation.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: Before that interjection, I was pointing out that the
National Party conference was obviously nervous about the taxgathering propensity of the
Minister of Finance, who seemed to have adopted the slogan, "a tax is the best means of
defence". The National Government has been in office 20 months, and all he can produce is
a Budget that has been described by New Zealand's largest daily newspaper as a Budget of
"bits and pieces". I agree with that description, because the Budget has no central theme, no
plan, no vision, and no inspiration; no real attempt has been made to attack the issues of the
day.
Even the pieces of verbiage to which people might cling for some hope apparently do
not mean what they say, or, at best, should not be taken too seriously. On page 4 the
following paragraph appears: "Economic growth is not an end in itself. It is, however, a
necessary prerequisite to the attainment of our society's individual and collective objectives,
whether they be expressed as the spending power of personal incomes, the quality of family
life, the quality and quantity of our social services, or the economic, social, and physical
environment in which we and succeeding generations will live." Few would quarrel with such
a summary and, if it could be accepted as the Government's stance, people might see a little
grey in the dark clouds ahead. But within an hour of reading his Budget to the House the
Prime Minister appeared on television and, when questioned on this issue, said, "We had to
sacrifice something, so we sacrificed growth." If that paragraph is read again, it implies that
everything goes out the window. The truth is that the Government does not know what it has
sacrificed and what it has not. It is bewildered by its inability to come to grips with the
problems.
The Government lacks a sense of direction and purpose, yet it still tries to blame others.
The public has had enough of that. People's memories are not short, and they remember the
irresponsible Budget of 1972 and the loud proclamation made by the Minister of Finance
that he had spent it all. They find, 5 years later, that the Minister of Finance is still as
irresponsible as he was then. He likes to hark back to the boom of 1973, and then very
conveniently forgets the international recession of 1974 and 1975 and the massive export
boom his Government inherited in 1976. The National Government inherited a 50 percent
increase in export earnings, which represented an extra $1,000 million. The Labour
Government had planned and worked for that, but the benefits have been destroyed by this
Tory Government. As the market falters, there is little room for manoeuvre. The Prime
Minister and his Cabinet are just like so many sailors in a lifeboat partly filled with water;
they think that all they have to do to let the water out is drill a few more holes in the bottom.
I shall now look at some of the issues before us. I turn first to taxation, because it
concerns every New Zealander. The Minister of Finance has allowed the beneficiaries to be
brought into the tax net. I shall be surprised if he has not received mail from them, because I
have received many dozens of complaining letters. People from one end of the country to the
other, no matter what their political opinion, consider that the whole tax structure should be
pulled apart and rebuilt to cater for two significant objectives: incentives for the people, and
proper protection for the family budget. It is fair to say that, until the 1977 Budget appeared,
many people believed that the Minister of Finance would have the gumption at least to have
a go. Now they have their answer-plenty of blow, but no go.
The people will be reminded of this occasion many times, and for a start by $742 million,


## p. 1590 (#46) ############################################

1590
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
which represents the biggest taxation increase in our history. The single-income family with
young children has received a little relief, and of that I am glad. But the relief restores them
only to the circumstances they had about 6 months ago. The new proposal for families with
children under 10 years does not restore them to that level. They have been told they cannot
have the relief now, even though they need it now. They will receive it as a tax rebate next
year. I suppose the theory is that the relief will soften the people a little in an election year,
but, with the Minister of Finance winding them through the economic wringer the way he is,
that would be clutching at straws.
For every dollar the Budget purports to hand back to the people in income tax, another
$9 is taken away. The average income tax burden on the family has increased by $950. The
total increase in tax will amount to $911 million, making the additional family commitment
more than $1,100. The so-called relief produces other anomalies. For example, the relief
offered to a family on $80 a week is half the relief offered to a family on $150 a week.
Families with children at intermediate or secondary level, with all the costs of uniforms,
school fees, books, and so on, receive no relief. The utterance of the Prime Minister on
television was "No sympathy"
I wonder if the Prime Minister has forgotten the report brought down by the working
party of the New Zealand Council of Social Services as recently as 8 December 1976. The
Press Association message reads: "The report also says that studies of the life cycle of the
family indicate the time of greatest stringency is during the teenage years when the food,
clothing, and general living experiences of children are at their peak." The Prime Minister
dismisses that. He has said that when children are of that age their mothers can go out to
work. In a sentence, that pretty well sums up the Government's attitude to family life in New
Zealand. By the size of the rebate for children under 10 years, the Government indicates
that the worth of the mother at home is $4 a week, payable in one year's time. Taken
together, the two statements add up to a calculated insult to mothers. The statements add up
to a farce as far as the Cabinet committee on family affairs is concerned. Where was that
committee when this policy was discussed?
In the field of new taxation, the Minister of Finance has taken a belt at the family unit.
Domestic tumblers and cabinet clothes dryers became subject to a new 20 percent tax as
from Budget night. I did not hear about a tax on heating units for swimming pools. The
alleged reason for the tax was to discourage wasteful use of energy and to divert domestic
energy consumption to gas. Many people live in areas where there is no gas. If one has young
children, it is virtually impossible to do without these appliances, particularly during the
winter-and the Government knows that.
Mr Bell: Nonsense!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The member for Gisborne says, "nonsense." Will he tell
the people of Gisborne that that is his view about clothes dryers in the home? The
Government knew it would collect the tax. The move is not to dissuade people from using
electricity, but simply another way of gathering revenue.
Hon. H. R. Lapwood Another bad guess.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: For the benefit of the Minister of Tourism, when it comes
to beer and cigarettes many high-flown arguments can be raised to justify the decision to
increase the tax. A fair sample has been seen in the Budget from an author who is quick to
call others hypocrites.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: And correctly.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: It will not be hard for the people to make their own
judgments on this. The Minister of Finance found his way into Parliament after an election
fought on these issues. No doubt he did his fair share of talking about the simple pleasures of
the working man, because he repeated it ad nauseam in those days. Be that as it may, this tax
will fall most heavily on people with lower incomes. We were told that the tax was for
community health, but now the Minister of Health has said that the Government will spend
$4 million out of the expected tax take of $27 million on health. I hope the people will
ponder upon that. The whole tenor of the Budget is: those with money shall have more, and
those with families will do the paying.
Another of the Budget fizzers was in housing. The people well remember the Minister
of Energy Resources proclaiming that, if the National Government was elected, it would
produce a "dynamic new housing policy". That policy has had an effect-one cannot deny
that. Let me give a few examples. First, the Government has wrecked the private mortgage
market; secondly, it has allowed mortgagee sales to climb dramatically; thirdly, it set about
destroying the land bank. Some of the Government's friends are smiling, and perhaps that is


## p. 1591 (#47) ############################################

26 July
1591
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
why we have not heard anything in the Budget about a speculation tax. Fourthly, the
Government has allowed private mortgage interest rates to run riot, with real interest rates
of 23 percent for second mortages. Fifthly, the Government has lifted the Housing
Corporation prime interest rate to 8.5 percent. In simple language, that means that since the
change of Government weekly charges of $4.90 on a base mortgage of $14,000 have
increased, and that the payments over the life of that mortgage are now $7,600. The
Government has done that in 18 months. Sixthly, all the indications are that the number of
housing units built in the last 2 years will be 10 000 less than that of the 2 previous years. That
is quite a housing policy. It could, in its own way, be called dynamic, but not for the people
who want houses and not for the building industry.
Against that background of failure, I shall quote from the 1976 Budget. On page 33 we
read: "Whereas the previous Government increased State participation in the housing
sector, thus driving out private investment, our aim is to restore to the private sector the
dominant role in the new housing market. We are now moving towards this objective in an
orderly fashion, while still ensuring that housing construction is maintained at an adequate
level." The last sentence is worth repeating-"We are now moving towards this objective in
an orderly fashion, while still ensuring that housing construction is maintained at an
adequate level."
This time, we have the same Minister of Finance talking about easing demand on home
building. I have not the slightest doubt that he can support his argument by turning to the
permit statistics, so we shall help him out. The number of permits has fallen. The average
monthly number of permits issued for the 3 months ended June 1976 is 2488, while the
average number of permits for the 3 months ended June 1977 is 2008, an average decline of
480. Of course, that argument can be taken to its logical conclusion, and I do not doubt that
the Prime Minister will do so; if he does, he will find that fewer than 23 000 units were built
in the last year. He said that the demand for housing had eased. The truth is that people are
not bothering to apply for permits, because they know that the likelihood of obtaining
mortgage finance is pretty remote, and that even if they could get it there is no possibility
that a single-income wage or salary earner can meet a second mortgage commitment of 23
percent. That is the present state of affairs under the Government's housing policy.
On the other side of the coin, the further easing of the savings banks' security ratios can
offer some relief in the sale of existing homes. In fact, I advocated that very strongly in the
Address in Reply debate, and my colleagues have advocated it since. However, that can
hapen only if savings levels can be maintained, and, with the small savers up against the wall
as they now are, there is a very real question mark against that one. I agree with the abolition
of stamp duty on the purchase of a first section or a first home, but neither of those moves
will build one more house or provide one more section at a reasonable cost to young New
Zealanders.
It is therefore essential that a number of steps be taken-and these steps will certainly
be included in the Labour Party's policy. First and foremost, there must be a reactivation
and an expansion of the land bank. Secondly, funds for refinancing must be provided for
genuine home owners who find themselves in short-term mortgage difficulties. At present
they are ignored by the Minister of Housing. Thirdly, a proper degree of control over
interest rates must be exercised. Fourthly, funds must be provided to enable the Housing
Corporation adequately to supplement reasonable cost finance from the private sector, in
order to sustain the building industry to its full commitment. Fifthly, the corporation must be
authorised to advance mortgages at a reasonable level. None of those factors is being
properly accommodated at present.
The tax rebate on rates is essentially an election sop. It will clearly be overwhelmed by
inflation. A number of people have already told me that their rates in the last year have risen
more than the Budget concession. In the Budget itself we are told that local bodies will have
to pay 10.5 percent for their loan funds. Once again, the ratepayers will be called upon to
foot the bill.
In summary, the housing section of the Budget offers some concessions to the lender,
but very little of real consequence to the purchaser. For a National Government that is about
par for the course.
The first hurdle at which the Government crashed was of its own making-its so-called
superannuation scheme. In the Budget we find that the extra cost of the scheme is about
$330 million, and the scheme is certainly not in full operation yet. The total cost has already
reached $930 million. It is small wonder that the phrase "supertax Budget" is catching on in
many places. If the Government had not involved itself in massive payments to those who


## p. 1592 (#48) ############################################

1592
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
are not in need, it could have offered four times the amount of relief it has offered to families
that are in real need. The Prime Minister talks about belt tightening, and says, at page 44 of
the Budget: "We can adopt sensible and fair policies which ensure that the hardship we have
to suffer now is fairly apportioned and we can all think of tomorrow and not try to take what
we can today." At a time when he is pressing harder and harder on lower middle-income
groups, he is paying out an additional $4,300 gross a year to thousands of New Zealanders
who already have incomes of $15,000 or more. He squeezes the people on the breadline, and
at the same time he hands over a nice little bonus to be spent on an overseas trip or a colour
television set.
It might not be a bad idea to illustrate what is happening in welfare. I shall take the
hypothetical example of three brothers-any three New Zealanders known to any member.
They are all in their fifties, or they were last week. They were then all in jobs that gave them
an income of $8,600 each. Yesterday one of the brothers turned 60, and for passing "go" he
gets an added gross income of $4,300, and up he goes to $12,900. The second brother was
involved in a serious automobile accident on his way to work, and was injured so badly that
he will not be able to work again. Because it was an accident, he is entitled to accident
compensation of 80 percent of his former income, so he will drop back by about $1,700. The
third brother, the youngest, with children still at secondary school, had a coronary that was
so severe that the doctor said he would never work again. He cannot claim accident
compensation, because it was not an accident, and he cannot get in on the Government's
superannuation act, because he is far too young; and so he goes back about $5,000 and winds
up on a sickness benefit of $3,600. Last Friday we had three men each on $8,600 a year; on
Monday the youngest, who still has dependants, has an income of $3,600, the second has an
income of $6,900, and the only one who is fit and well and able to continue to work has an
income of $12,900. What kind of a crazy mess are we getting into when we get to a
circumstance like this?
It has been said that in the last year benefits have been lifted 55 percent. Find any
genuine beneficiary who has had a 55 percent lift in his income. I know from the flood of
mail I am receiving that many genuine beneficiaries are worse off under this Government. I
can tell the Prime Minister that, for the old lady wrapped in a coat, clutching a hot water
bottle because she cannot afford to pay the power bill this Government has created—
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Here come the crocodile tears.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: Members opposite can read the letter, as the old lady is
finding it a long, hard winter. The Prime Minister can say "crocodile tears" if he chooses, but
those who know the circumstances understand the position; and that is the case in too many
homes at present. Even with their own scheme National members are trying to scramble out
from under. They told the people it was to be an inflation-proof scheme, but now we are told
that the new order of things is to tie it to wages. The explanation for that is quite simple; if
the benefits were allowed to continue on the present conditions, they would immediately
expose the uneven increases, and expose the phoneyness of the claim that the benefits under
the National Government's superannuation scheme were to be inflation proof.
One of the greatest disaster areas in the National Government's flounderings has been
monetary control. It seems that the Minister of Finance must have read some sort of text
book from about the turn of the century and that that is all he can remember, because in two
Budgets in a row we have seen interest rates heading onwards and upwards, and we have
seen the race of the moneylenders, led by no less a person than the Minister of Finance
himself. In his last year's effort he claimed to be concerned about what he called, on page 32,
"the haphazard and inequitable structure of interest rates". He made great play on the
March monetary package, which he said had freed up many of the controlled areas and
restored the competitive ability of the major financial institutions. He went on in the Budget
to say: "These measures have been successful. Uncontrolled interest rates have in some
cases fallen sharply." What a yard of tripe! Members opposite know it to be just that. I invite
the Minister of Finance to list, for the interest and information of the House, those areas
where the interest rates in July 1977 are less than they were in February 1976. He will not
need a very sharp pencil.
The whole field is in a shambles. Never in the history of this country has so much capital
been misdirected. This Budget talks about increasing production. If any members opposite
have an interest in this business, they will know that companies throughout New Zealand are
desperately trying to find equity capital; they will know that, just to survive for the next 12
months, company after company will have to go out onto the debenture market and float
issues at inordinately high interest rates. That can mean only one thing: their position in


## p. 1593 (#49) ############################################

26 July
1593
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
relation to their competitors on the overseas markets will be weakened, and the costs of their
production at home will be lifted. All this is a direct result of the mismanagement of the
present Minister of Finance. All he can offer in this Budget is a change in the Moneylenders
Act so that the interest rate specified in the definition of a moneylender can be increased
from 10 percent to 15 percent. It is like trying to sober up a drunken driver by offering him
another drink.
The whole pattern of the Government's action is an admission of defeat in what the
Prime Minister styled as a battle against inflation. The Government stock interest rates
show the magnitude of that failure. By setting the rate for stock taken out for 2 years or more
at 10 percent, the Minister of Finance has almost doubled the present rate-and just 12
months ago he lifted that rate to 5½ percent. In fact, as Minister of Finance, he has lifted the
rates on Government stock by 95 percent in 15 months. The genuine small saver, whom
members opposite make some pretence of caring for, will be left lamenting, too-inflation-
proof accounts and all-because how many people with family commitments can afford to
lock savings away for 5 years? What we have here is just another perk for the well to do, yet
another admission by this Government of its failure to contain inflation.
The 1976 Budget pointed out on page 23 that in the years 1974 and 1975 the import price
index rose by 85 percent; since it is reckoned that, for every 4 percent increase in that index,
the consumer price index increases by 1 percent, we can say that during those 2 years purely
imported inflation increased the consumer price index by an average of 11 percent.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Where did it start?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: For the benefit of the Minister of Education, the balance,
and a very small balance at that, was of New Zealand origin. What a change of circumstances
we have seen! Last year we saw a dramatic change. It was caused through no fault of the
Government as far as import prices were concerned, but by its actions on the domestic scene.
The Budget admits that the import price index in the financial year rose only 17 percent; that
means, at most, that it accounts for about 4 percent of the year's increase in the consumer
price index. Under National, iħ other words, by far and away the greatest proportion of our
inflation has been home grown. In fact, not only has it been home grown, but it has also been
deliberately initiated and nurtured by Government action. It seems that the Minister of
Finance-who is now talking in the aisles, contrary to normal practice in the House-finds
inflation very good, because he knows that more inflation means more tax, and that more tax
means more scope for pretending to do what you are really not doing.
This Budget has continued to fuel the fires. In particular, the widespread increase in
interest rates, the increase in sales tax on unavoidable expenditure such as spare parts and in
some areas of transport, yet another heave in postal charges, which are not specifically
mentioned in the budget but are in one of the 64 pages that turn up later on as
explanations—all these are grist to the inflationary mill. I believe the Prime Minister enjoys
that, because it enables him to do things that he could not even contemplate otherwise. But
the prospects for the ordinary bloke-you know, the ordinary bloke for whom the Prime
Minister protested some time ago that he had some concern-are very bleak indeed
I remember well, as others can, that one of the catch cries of the National Opposition in
1975 was that, if elected, it would control the import situation. The subject does not rate a
mention in the index of this Budget-and no wonder. Not only is this an area of failure, but
the one impotent gesture the Government made, the introduction of the import deposit
scheme, is to be reversed 1 week from today. The best measure of its futility is the
Government's refusal to mention in the Budget what anyone would clearly recognise as a
budgetary measure. It certainly raises a few questions. We were told on page 23 of the 1976
Budget, not that the measure was likely to be withdrawn, but that, "further measures are
necessary to reduce demand for imports." In 1976, imports rose by $766 million. Where,
then, are the further measures to take control of the situation? Non-existent.
Now, the Government is removing its one and only effort at restraint—a poor effort
though it was-and the question is, why? Is it because the scheme was an abject failure, or
was this the quid pro quo for including the word "agriculture" in the recent OECD
declaration? We remember well that the EEC was very testy about the whole exercise when
it was introduced. On 30 April 1976, when reporting on the New Zealand-FFC negotiations
at that time, the New Zealand Herald stated: The EEC side claimed the scheme
contradicted the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development trade pledge,
and was a bad precedent. That has gone now, of is about to go.
The next question is, what is to be the Government's import policy? Early in 1976 the
Minister of Trade and Industry said that the Government would do something about the


## p. 1594 (#50) ############################################

1594
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
matter after a boom. I would call $1,000 million extra in export income a boom, as I would
call the $766 million extra in imports. The Minister of Trade and Industry did nothing;
neither did the Minister of Finance. Even the Budget admits that the overseas deficit might
worsen. What happened to that cornerstone of the National Government's economic policy?
What happened to the bold statement made by the then Leader of the Opposition, now the
Prime Minister, as reported in the Evening Post of 9 September 1975, that "the first step the
National Government would take would be to curb imports." It is very convenient to forget
that. One sure thing from this Budget is that the new transport policy will create new
pressures on the importation of fuel and capital equipment. It will be interesting to hear how
the Minister of Finance will balance the budget on this one.
Speaking of fuel takes me on to energy, which is worth a few words. This is one part of
the Budget that could be said, figuratively at least, to offer a ray of light. Indeed, it has
earned a measure of muted acclaim from some editorial writers, which is intriguing of itself,
as the centrepiece of the energy policy is the socialisation of on-shore exploration. We are
not against that. We are only intrigued at the circumstances that led the Government down
the socialist path. It seems that this was probably brought about largely by the Government's
own inept handling of the mining interests, which were no longer prepared to expend large
amounts of high-risk capital when political uncertainty was added to the very high degree of
geological uncertainty that already existed. As the present expectation of a strike from multi-
million dollar boring operations is 1:18-and one cannot diminish that—and with the
uncertainty of the political meanderings of the present Government-the oil levy and all that
kind of fiasco-one could not expect people to invest money.
Members will be interested in a more detailed explanation from the Minister of Energy
Resources as to how this operation is to be undertaken. Does the Government intend to buy
its own plant, or does it intend to subcontract to companies that recently declined to
undertake exploration on their own behalf? If it intends the latter, some indication of the
general terms of the contracts would be of great interest to the House and to the country. I
believe that additional expenditure on energy research is good; it has the support of the
Opposition. Successive Governments have perhaps been too timid in this important field;
although I notice, when we talk about energy, that the Government is strangely silent about
nuclear power. In case anyone has forgotten the Labour Opposition's attitude, I make it
perfectly clear that under the known conditions it will not have a bar of it.
There is little purpose in conserving energy in one area if it is to be blown in another. I
am interested to see that the Minister of Transport is paying attention, because in the Budget
there is a clash of objectives between the energy policy, on the one hand, and the transport
policy on the other; the one claims to promote indigenous resources, whereas the other
clearly promotes imports. It is not too strong a comment to describe the transport policy as
being anti-energy as well as anti-railway, because New Zealand has had to spend $160
million in the past 4 years to improve the capital equipment of the Railways. Now the
emphasis is to shift to road transport, in a policy based on the very expensive but already
outdated Wilbur Smith report, which was produced before the international oil crisis.
It is a whole new ball game now, yet the Government and the Minister of Transport
cling to that report as the basis of their policy. The Minister of Transport is trying to
interject, but is being scolded by the Prime Minister for doing so. It would make a lot more
sense if the Minister of Transport expedited the upgrading of the railways, and operated a
more selective integration of road transport. It would make a lot more sense if the Minister
of Railways attempted to get a real return from the tremendous pool of skills available in the
railway workshops, not only in maintaining but in constructing much of the rolling stock we
need, rather than importing increasing numbers of huge road vehicles, as he clearly intends
to do. Under this policy and from this Budget we shall see more and bigger trucks, more
problems with the cost and maintenance of the roading system, more traffic congestion,
inevitably a greater road toll, and more wear and tear on the nerves of those living by or
those driving on the country's highway system.
Hon. C. C. A. McLachlan: The member does not mean that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: No, he thinks he's against it, but he isn't at all.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: No one should know that better than the Minister of
Transport, who should not interject, because he will really get scolded by the Prime Minister
in a moment. Every National Budget devotes a fair share of space and words to the needs of
the farming community and the role of our farmers in the New Zealand scheme of things.
However, the final result is almost always illusion rather than substance, the old put and
take, with the take now and put later-maybe. This Budget is no exception. On page 11 it is


## p. 1595 (#51) ############################################

26 July
1595
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
stated: "The Government is determined that farmers be given every incentive to undertake
the substantial investment required if increases in farm production are to be achieved."
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The Leader of the Opposition is sending his own members to
sleep.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The Prime Minister is worried about sleeping again. It was
reported that he went to sleep over his own proof sheets. We can understand that; we had to
listen to the Budget, too. However, the yapping that has been going on tonight would not let
anyone go to sleep, even if he had a mind to. The Prime Minister has not really stopped since
I started my speech. The point I want to make is that once again the Prime Minister's deeds
do not match his words. Sir Keith Holyoake described fertiliser as the lifeblood of the
farming industry of this country. The National Government-the farmers' friend-slashed
the fertiliser subsidy by $11.6 million. Apparently, the theory is that you have less grass and
more stock. The former member for Awarua summed it up beautifully when he spoke of the
National Party's "skinny sheep" policy. I cannot help but recall the pre-Budget speculation
and the praise that was being heaped on the Minister of Agriculture from certain quarters
about what was called the holding of the line on the fertiliser subsidy; his efforts were
applauded as something of a Cabinet victory. On behalf of the farmers of New Zealand, I say
that I am glad the Minister was not defeated in Cabinet.
No one disputes the need for an infusion of new blood into the farming industry; and
few would dispute—and I think the member for King Country, who is trying to interject,
would agree with me—that the debt burden is the greatest single dead weight bearing down
on any young farmer. Yet the Budget, as a matter of deliberate policy, increased that burden
by lifting the Rural Bank prime interest rate to 8.5 percent. Taking the average loan in 1975-
76 at $46,800, we find that the changes brought about by the Government have increased the
annual repayments of interest and associated charges by over $500 a year. On an average
loan, it has increased the repayments over a 25-year period by $15,500. If the member for
King Country-
Mr Birch: Franklin.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Is he talking about you?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: is pleased about that, a lot of young farmers do not share
his joy, especially those with bigger than average mortgages. Earlier this year, the New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research predicted that, even if farm prices held, farmers
would suffer a loss in income of 19 percent, due to the impact of domestic price increases.
There is no relief, or prospect of relief, in the Budget.
Nor is there much to smile about in the Government's handling of our major primary
export markets, as is clearly witnessed by the fiasco—and one cannot call it anything else—of
the recent visit of the Minister of Overseas Trade to Ireland. That shows the deep
insensitivity of the Government to the need and the mood of the moment. It seems that the
Prime Minister's scouts, when they went ahead of him to clear the way, were sniffing at the
wrong winds, because they certainly misled the Minister of Overseas Trade; and the country
is paying dearly for their ineptitude. As dairy farmers hope to manage a 10 percent price
increase for dairy products on the European market as a result of recommendations from the
European Economic Commission, let them remember that the Hon. Joe Walding twice won
an 18 percent increase for them. And let them take heart from the fact that he will be back
here soon.
One of the many success stories of the third Labour Government was regional
development. It was a partnership between the Government and the people, a drive to bring
development back into balance. It recognised that failure to act would cost the country very
dearly, in both economic and social terms. The people of the regions were keen, and the
Labour Government, with great assistance from the Development Finance Corporation,
provided $50 million in less than 3 years. The results began to show at an early stage.
Population drifts were slowed or were halted, and in some areas they were even reversed.
More important, there was a new spirit and a sense of purpose and dedication in many areas.
But, tragically, there was a change of Government, and that spirit has been trampled on.
Once again, the Tory Government has set the clock back years. The Budget does little
to undo the damage already done; the Government's half-hearted approach is probably best
expressed by a couple of lines from the Budget, which states that a number of restrictions
that were imposed on the existing programme last year will be relaxed. Not all of
them-some of them. It is a bit of a gesture from the Government, which could not care less.
Let me tell the regional development councils throughout New Zealand and those people in
the regions who are keen to weigh in and help themselves that the incoming Labour


## p. 1596 (#52) ############################################

1596
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Government will reintroduce a comprehensive regional development programme, and will
once again ensure a balanced use of our resources and that there is opportunity for all our
people. It will not come under this Government, because not only have we a drift within the
country and a withering of many of our communities, but, at the same time, we have almost
14 000 unemployed or on relief work-and that number will go up.
We also have a massive flow of people out of the country. For the benefit of the Minister
of Tourism, who is trying to interject, it is a tragic fact that, at the last count, the net outflow
was about 22 000. No country can possibly afford such losses. It seems that the Minister of
Finance sees this only as an excuse for the run down of the housing industry. If the
Government could develop the same kind of incentives for the export of goods as it seems to
have introduced for the export of people, we should be on the road back.
The only reward the manufacturers received for their tremendous effort-and it has
been gargantuan in the last 4 years—is a line in the Budget that states that the Government
intends to maintain total assistance at at least the current level. Big deal! In other words,
everything will be tipped back into the bucket, and then it will all be tipped back out into
heaps. Except for the inroads of inflation, there will be no substantial difference. No wonder
the manufacturers are deeply concerned. In a recent market intelligence report they stated:
"Creeping recession is a new experience for New Zealand. In the past, the miseries of short,
sharp, recessions have been tempered by the expectation of the next boom. But this time,
the export boom has come and is nearly gone, yet the pendulum of the economic programme
still points to economic recession. By and large, economic management has been respon-
sible." They mean economic mismanagement, but they have been too polite to say so.
But they are concerned, and no wonder, because their best market must necessarily be
the home market, and this is now showing signs of persistent weakening. It will continue to
weaken under the pressures the Government is applying to the working people. The
manufacturers look at Australia-their major overseas market-and ponder, because they
know that not only is the Australian economy beset with its own particular brand of
problems, but that sympathy for New Zealand is at about its lowest ebb ever, due in no small
part to the inept intervention of the Minister of Finance in the political sector of the
marketing arrangements, an intrusion it has taken more than a year to recover from.
Elsewhere, the scene does not engender great enthusiasm-and I have already mentioned
Europe.
It must be said again and again that the only way New Zealand can haul itself from the
mire in which the Government has dropped it is by working and producing its way out.
However, we shall be able to do that only when the present climate of confrontation,
constantly stirred by the Minister of Finance himself, is replaced by a genuine spirit of co-
operation, when incentives to do the job are spread right across the board from the work
bench to the market place, and when people's faith in themselves and their country is
restored. We have to make our own way in the world. No one disputes that. Our success or
failure will depend on our ability to get the best possible return from our heads and our
hands. In that respect, the Government has failed our country miserably. History will not
devote much space to the Budget-probably none. If it is accorded any space at all, it will be
recorded that on 21 July 1977 the third National Government wrote its own obituary. It is to
be hoped that, for the sake of our country and our people, the electors do not have to wait
too long to administer the last rites.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): We have just heard an
immensely forgettable, and, if the sleepiness of the member for Auckland Central is any
gauge, a truly soporific and very sad speech, from the Leader of the Opposition. He is no
crocodile; he could not even work up a decent lather of emotion about the Budget. He was
sad on television on Thursday night, and he confirmed his sadness tonight. In fact, I am told
that the Labour Party has commissioned a 1 ft statue of him, with a 39 ft pedestal from which
it hopes he will jump. He has shown clearly, during his term as Leader of the Opposition,
and in his attempt at discussing the Budget tonight, that his failures in Government were no
flash in the pan.
We heard no effective discussion of the importance of farming and of land development,
the real engine in the country's economy, and no effective discussion of the fishing industry.
I do not think he even mentioned it. The fishing industry has grown and developed
markedly, and is a real matter for regional development. All members of the House are
concerned with regional development, but the Leader of the Opposition showed no concern
at all for the fishing industry, the 200-mile zone, and the benefit that it will offer New
Zealand. I believe all members are also concerned with tourism, but he did not attempt to


## p. 1597 (#53) ############################################

26 July
1597
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
cover that either. He offered no assistance or advice and proffered no plans-not a word. On
forestry we again heard not a word. The Leader of the Opposition and other Opposition
members would not be paid, and neither would we, if those great industries were not
working and developing. I hope Opposition members will offer advice and assistance, even if
their leader cannot. Manufacturing industries were given some slight conciliatory comment:
he would look after them. But would he? The record of manufacturing industries in the last
18 months has been one of growth and expansion.
The key weakness of the speech of the Leader of the Opposition was his failure to
discuss the international economic situation. We are all aware of it to some degree, and he
should be more than most. Why does he complain about the Prime Minister's going away on
vital and very important Government and national business? The Leader of the Opposition
can go and see the situation for himself if he wishes, and if he does not he should read, find
out, and realise that we are living in a difficult economic situation and in a harsh and
competitive world. Indeed, he did not do much to help New Zealand's situation in that world
when he could, and I think the House and the country remembered that while he was making
his speech. One would never have known from his address that in the last 18 months New
Zealand has been facing an economic emergency. Indeed, he should know all about it since
it started under his administration.
I wish the Leader of the Opposition would speak a little more in terms of the public
interest, and in terms of the common weal, which any Government must try to meet. I guess
it was his failures that led him to such silence on the Budget, and to such emphasis on the
past 18 months. Remember the phrase he used at the beginning of his speech—“In the last
18 months". I wish he had gone back just a little further, to the short period in which he held
office and in which he helped transform a strong economy to a weak and debilitated one. We
heard from him no suggestion that he understood economic management, or that his own
economic mismanagement had been at fault. He gave no suggestion of having an economic
policy for the present situation. We certainly heard no setting out of development plans or
economic guidelines for the future, which is what the Budget was all about. Indeed, that is
why there was a new Government at the end of 1975, and that is why, in this Budget as in the
last Budget, we are committed to the restoration-and I love using this phrase-of the
shattered economy left by the Labour Government. We will continue to rub that in.
The former Labour Government did leave a shattered economy, and the Leader of the
Opposition might have had some grace in acknowledging that in his speech tonight. We
inherited disastrous economic circumstances. The ship of State was adrift; the economy was
out of control. I do not believe that question is at issue in any effective, objective discussion.
In 1972 the Labour Government discarded our incomes policy. In 1973 expenditure got out
of control, not just in one department but right across the expenditure field-in broadcast-
ing, housing, and transport, to mention a few. Members of the Labour Government were
talking about the land bank they had built up; but what about their overexpenditure and
failure to control expenditure in terms of parliamentary practice? By 1974 they had
dissipated our $1,000 million balance of payments surplus-that very important nest egg to
protect us against a downturn-and all before the winds of economic fortune had begun to
hit us as badly as they do now. In 1975 they were still subsidising our major trading
departments and were borrowing to beat the band, to keep the economy rolling at a pace
that was out of tune with economic circumstances. The result was economic chaos, and it has
been this Government that has had to pick up the pieces. We said there would be difficulties
in doing so, and in the two Budgets we have presented we have had to emphasise the point
that New Zealand is in economic difficulties. We will tell the story as it is, even if the Leader
of the Opposition is not prepared to do so.
Let us be frank about the situation. When we took over, the Treasury reports that are
issued to every incoming Government showed that we faced a disastrous economic situation
which the Labour Government had not endeavoured to hold, or correct. I am reminded of
the fellow who was thrust through with a sword. His cobber said to him, "How does it feel,
mate?" He replied, "Tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church door, but 'tis enough
and will serve". I believe the Bard of Avon is worth quoting at this stage, because that
quotation is indicative of New Zealand's economic position when the present Leader of the
Opposition left the Government.
From my experience in Government, both in administration and in politics, I do not
pretend that the difficulties have been overcome, but we are making great progress, and the
country knows there is now economic direction, leadership, and management. The 1977
Budget reflects that leadership and management. Our aim has been to provide tough


## p. 1598 (#54) ############################################

1598
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
economic management for the country at this time. I am also reminded of the comment
made by the former Attorney-General of the United States-and I am not sure whether he is
still in favour of it; he is in jail now: "When the going gets tough, the tough get going.” I
think that statement is relevant to New Zealand's economic situation.
We have to get up and get going, and also to ask New Zealanders in every sector of the
economy to get up and get going, because, as the Budget states very clearly, it is up to us to
get ourselves out of the economic difficulties we face. I hope members agree with that.
Certainly, we shall not go sadly to the television screens or come into this House and deny
our responsibilities. Let us face up to them like New Zealanders. On any analysis, this 1977
Budget will stand up. It provides a systematic approach to economic management, forward-
looking economic strategies, and wider guidelines for development into the medium term.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: Oh, no.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: If the member for Manukau will only rest in peace we will
cover some of these matters. This is the basis on which we prepared the Budget. The Leader
of the Opposition suggested that we were careless, had not bothered, and were not worried.
Well, I can tell him that a tremendous amount of sweat and intellectual effort, both at official
and ministerial level, went into the preparation of this Budget. The economy is becoming
increasingly more complex to run, and it needs tight, tough, direct decision-making to get all
those decisions through, analysed, worked on, and put out officially on Budget night. Let us
get our perspectives right. We have faced the longest and deepest depression since the 1930s,
and the largest fall in standards of living among any of the 24 OECD countries, as a result of
a fall of 40 percent in our terms of trade. That is easy to say, but it translates into an
immensely difficult economic situation, with living standards back at our 1971 level. They
were pretty good then, but our expectations have continued to rise, making it more difficult
to finance our needs and desires, whether individually or in terms of the community, which is
the Government's responsibility. That is the task we had to face in this 1977 Budget-a
difficult, but not an impossible task.
I believe we can work our way out of it. Considerable progress has been made since the
last Budget, and I am sorry the Leader of the Opposition was not prepared to acknowledge
that. Overseas observers have been prepared to, and the OECD and the IMF, both tough
judges, have accepted that New Zealand has done very well. We have slashed our external
and internal deficits, but acknowledge that the rate of inflation is still far too high. I should
like a little bit of help from the Opposition in asking people to restrain their wage demands
and to spend a little less, because we need more restraint across the whole economy. That is
the philosophy of this Budget. I do not apologise for this, because we would not be telling it
as it is if we did not ask New Zealanders to accept some restraint at this time. We can do it,
because our standards of living are still high and, in our economic management, we have
ensured relatively full employment and by far the best in the 24 OECD countries—a good
record at a time of great economic difficulty. It is disappointing that the Opposition is not
prepared to acknowledge this.
The 1976 Budget gave that direction to the policy of restraint. Growth has been held to
restore balance in the economy. We do not apologise for this, and would not have been
maintaining our responsibilities as Ministers if we had done otherwise. It is a difficult policy
to sustain. Everyone thinks he should be an exception. The Government's task is to bear the
pressures, and I believe the Prime Minister and his team have done this, on behalf of the
country, with dedication, common sense, and equity.
We have done the fair thing in trying to maintain standards of living for our elderly
people with the national superannuation scheme, at which the Opposition cavilled-rather
surprisingly, for a Labour Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition did not mention the
need to maintain employment and the difficulty of maintaining it. Inflation has continued at
a higher level because, in fairness to the people, we maintained employment. A little more
help from the Opposition would be welcome. This is a time when we should bury some of
our differences, which we shall look at as we go along. Restraint must continue, but we can
consolidate our economic management, as this Budget sets out to do. The nearest analogy I
can put to the House is that old phrase that when the guests come to the home, the "family
holds back". Let us hold back a little for the sake of New Zealand, for the past that we want
to preserve, the present that we want to sustain, and the future that we want to hand on to
our children.
I do not pretend to be the greatest systems analyst in the world, but the work we have
done on this Budget has been quite systematic and deliberate in tackling the problems of the
economy. We set ourselves clear, economic objectives. We can only ask the country—it is up
1


## p. 1599 (#55) ############################################

26 July
1599
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
to the citizens to respond to live within its income. We must earn our living more
efficiently, particularly abroad. And we must restructure and develop the economy for
growth in the 1980s, because that is dependent on decisions taken today. The Budget
recognises very clearly that New Zealand is economically on its own. Our nationhood is now
at stake. If we do not make the right decisions, and if we do not back up economic
management with development proposals, we shall not have much of a nation to work with
in the 1980s. So it is important to accept the objectives of living within our income and
earning our income more effectively and efficiently abroad. These economic objectives are
backed by a systematic economic strategy. The strategy is to lift what is at present a virtually
static economy and to restore growth, while holding employment at good levels and bringing
down inflation. The latter is indeed vital.
We must have the support of the whole community in bringing inflation back to
manageable levels, and Budget policies are designed to help with this. There is no simplistic
equation, and I put it to the House that the strategy outlined in this Budget is the only
effective one at this time. All sections of the Budget are interlocking, like a chess game. You
cannot take away one piece and forget the rest. The Leader of the Opposition showed an
ineffectual approach in three broad areas. In a modern economy, budgeting has three
problems-fiscal, monetary, and planning. The Leader of the Opposition, of course,
touched on all of them. He knew a little bit about them because. after all, he had
mismanaged them in his term of office. A Budget for all individuals or sectors centres on the
tax measures. This is a key area for Government action. We are still paying for the Labour
Government's inaction, in terms of the subsidy field, for example.
The key element in this Budget is to check the Budget deficit. We are asking New
Zealanders to pay now more effectively for what they are getting, and to pay more as they go
along. This is the sensible, realistic attitude if we are to fight our way out of our economic
troubles. The Budget deficit is a key issue. Every member in this House knows that we
lowered the Budget deficit in 1976. This year's Budget indicates that, despite the introduc-
tion of a higher level of national superannuation, the Budget deficit will be lower in
1977-78-the biggest economic success this Government has had, and very important in
restraining inflation.
Mr T. J. Young: What about other countries for which the Prime Minister believes
deficit budgeting is desirable in New Zealand's interest?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The member for Hutt sat there while his Government failed
to maintain parliamentary procedures in relation to its financial expenditure, but this
Government has held to its responsibilities. I say no more on that. We have lowered that
deficit, despite national superannuation payments and large wage increases. We aim to do
the same again in 1978, and hold capital expenditure despite all the pressures. I simply
remind the House that that was the greatest failure of the Labour Government. It allowed
Government expenditure to get out of control, and it did not bother to manage the economy.
The House has been through the broadcasting troubles several times. The Labour
Government had a deliberately slack attitude to money, which may not be the root of all evil
but is important in leading man down the path of dalliance. That is what happened under the
Labour Government. It ran its chances into the ground through its failure to account
effectively. When we took over there was a deficit for 1975-76 that would have amounted to
$1,200 million. We cut it back to $1.000 million. There was a predicted deficit for our first
financial year, 1976-77, of $1,400 million, but by tough, effective management we brought
that back to $500 million. We promised, and committed ourselves to trying, to maintain that
because we believed it was essential for the future of our country.
Opposition members were critical of the increase in taxes in 1976. It must be remem-
bered that if wages went up then the rates of taxation were exactly the same as they were
under the Labour Government. That Government fiddled about with the rates of taxation
and many people were caught as a result. This Government has not changed the rates but, of
course, taxes have increased as wages have gone up. Opposition members were critical of the
taxes proposed in the 1977 Budget. They appear to be crying woe before acknowledging the
need for taxation to fund community expenditure.
I wonder if members opposite want us to cut inflation further. We have been through
expenditure and have restrained it to the utmost, but it is essential that we maintain our
welfare and educational programmes. An extraordinarily imaginative early childhood policy
is being put out by the Minister of Education, who has been picking up a wide range of
proposals. The Minister of Health has been dealing with the whole area of community
health. All this is taking place in a time of great difficulty, but we are funding our health


## p. 1600 (#56) ############################################

1600
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
expenditure and bringing in what we believe are essential new programmes. If major welfare
and social activity is to be maintained there is no doubt what we must do, and there is no
question that the House will endorse this, because we know from our own electorates just
how important these matters are. We have to meet community needs and can do so if we are
prepared to approach more closely the real costs, which is what the Government, through
this Budget, is asking the country to do.
We are not prepared to live in a fantasy world, and that is why we have lowered some
subsidies and got rid of others. It is essential to get closer to real costs and to limit waste by
building up efficiency, particularly in our major trading departments. It is only common
sense for us in an affluent community, despite our difficulties, to pay the real cost of staple
foods and of our very expensive and complex telecommunications and transport systems.
Everyone connected with these sectors knows that much of the material we import for our
telephone system-which we tend to take for granted and our broadcasting system is
increasing in overseas terms at a very high rate and out of proportion to anything we have
experienced before. We must not put all this on to the future. The Labour Government did,
and because of its profligacy we are now faced with major loan repayment problems in 1980
and into the early 1980s. This Government will borrow at a reasonable rate only if that
borrowing is going into investment for production. In the meantime we are asking the
country to bear a reasonable share of that investment. I believe that is important. I am sure
that Labour Party members do not, for that is the "rent a demo" party anyway. It would rent
the lot and hope for the best in the future.
I remind the House that, however much we may dislike taxation, it is still the sign of a
civilised society and still the price that any country puts on the right to live in one. I am sorry
about those who are leaving, but they may come back. At least in this country we are proud
to have the right to move freely and to make our own decisions about where we will live. We
are now bringing in ship refugees. The Minister of Immigration has announced that today.
At least this is a country in which the right to pay taxes is a proud one and a country in which
we receive some return for our money, including the right and the security to live here.
Certainly, my 1977 taxes were up. I hope that all members will be able to sustain their tax
burdens without too much difficulty.
I want to develop the theme of the Leader of the Opposition that this is a miserable
Government. I believe that this is a very generous Government. Government members are
concerned, because they know all the needs in their own electorates. Opposition members
were none too keen to help the elderly, as we have with our national superannuation
scheme. I thought all were agreed in 1972, when Opposition members felt that the elderly
were receiving a dreadful deal. But it took a National Government to bring in a national
superannuation scheme, which cannot be compared to the Labour Government's scheme
because that Government intended to take the money from the people and keep it for years,
after which the people would have ended up with nothing.
Before the Budget, Labour Party members were talking desperately about the need for
tax relief. I remember the questions in this House about single-income families and young
families, and in this Budget this Government has come up with the answers. We are to have
an extended young-family rebate, not starting next year but written into the tax tables for
this year to cover the 1977-78 year. We are also giving new assistance to single-income
families. I believe the House should commend the Government for dealing with these major
areas of need. The $25 rates rebate move has been under consideration for years. We would
like to do more, but at least this is a start and is of assistance to home owners. We are all
keen on home owners. It is also of assistance to local bodies and, for the benefit of the
member for Hutt, who is trying to interject, I am sure the Hutt City Council will be
delighted. In a time of difficulty we have extended the limit for donations and school fees,
because we recognise the pressure that is being placed on all taxpayers in trying to continue
to meet demands for donations and the need for school fees. The Government cannot do
everything in the tax field in one year, but many measures have been put forward in this
Budget. Still, I agree that the key to the exercise is to hold inflation. We cannot restructure
the tax system at this stage. That cannot be done until the economy expands, and that is why
we have to work more effectively for the development of the economy.
The Budget also mentioned the importance of wage and income policies, and basically
we are talking about restraints at this time. We have to ask people to accept restraints on
wages and incomes if we are to hold inflation. The country has to learn to live within its
income more effectively in order to ease pressure on producers, farmers, and manufacturers,
as well as businessmen and commerce generally. It is essential that we ease pressure on


## p. 1601 (#57) ############################################

26 July
1601
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
wages and incomes, and therefore I urge not only the House but the whole of the union
movement to play its part. One thing I have been taught while assisting the Prime Minister in
the preparation of this Budget, is the tremendous impact that wage claims have on the Civil
Service. That carries over into the private sector and brings unbearable pressure on the
producers of wealth as well as those in the work force.
The second major field of activity besides fiscal policy is that of monetary policy. This is
a vitally important Budget for the whole area of monetary policy. Money is not everything,
but it is a wonderful substitute. This is a most complex matter today. Money, interest, and
loan policy are all tied up together. The Leader of the Opposition barely mentioned this, but
it is critical in the management of this and any other modern economy. The way we use
money is a vital economic dynamic. We have to consider how much we have in the
community, where we place it, and the speed and direction of its use.
Since March 1976 the Government has been endeavouring to reshape and free up the
money system. To continue that, this Budget is vital. The Government wants to free up the
money system and develop more realistic interest rates, thereby stimulating more savings
and expanding the role of the financial institutions. The Government also wants to ensure
better central management of credit. Tactically these are all highly desirable as part of an
overall monetary strategy. Without them the development of a modern economy cannot be
sustained. This policy will allow for a closer monitoring of future development and a more
even flow of money for housing and for local bodies, but not so much as to fuel inflation.
The Leader of the Opposition spoke of housing, but did not mention that the Labour
Government left $200 million of unsatisfactory mortgages, and $100 million of unsold new
properties because there was no mortgage money available. Under his Government, house
prices doubled-they went up only 6 percent last year-building costs rose by 66 percent,
and land prices by 160 percent. The Housing Corporation was in a mess and had land that
was to be tied up for years, yet the Leader of the Opposition has said he would build up the
land bank again. The state of the housing industry today represents economic circumstances,
not the "pie in the sky" hopes that ended in 1975 with all this unsold property.
A great deal has been done for housing finance in the Budget. Savings bank deposits
and security ratios have been freed up, and Government and local authority stock ratios
have been brought back to a more competitive level. Vendor mortgages in housing and
farms have been encouraged, while the change to the Moneylenders Act will free up finance
for the housing markets, as well as assist farm credit. The member for Henderson intended
to do something about this, but did not. The larger policy will come through in a Credit
Contracts Act.
The Leader of the Opposition is worried about inflation, but he made no mention of the
inflation-proof bond, a new measure to assist the small saver. The broad monetary strategy
in the Budget is designed to increase savings and investments, and I believe our future will
depend on this. We must do more from our own resources. Last year 28 percent of our gross
national product was invested, which is a good record. We must keep that up if we are to
earn our way in this very harsh and very competitive world. Borrowing will certainly have to
continue, and the Prime Minister has said that again and again. That is reasonable if it is for
investment in Maui, or meat hygiene; it is reasonable if it is for port development in the
container age; it is reasonable if it is for new pulp mills as at Karioi; it is reasonable if it is for
land development, which the Minister of Land has fought and argued for; and it is
reasonable if it is for the fishing industry, on which so much of our future may depend if we
want to build up a new industry to match agriculture.
Let us now talk about development. The Government is responsible for fiscal policy as
well as a host of other policies. Everyone is responsible for development, but the Govern-
ment can help and this Budget has given continuing emphasis to earning our living abroad.
That has come traditionally from farmers, forestry, and tourism, and I hope that in future it
will come increasingly from fishing, manufactured exports, new industries, import substitu-
tion, and some of the other major packages set out in the Budget. I think the Leader of the
Opposition could have mentioned the success of the livestock incentive scheme, which was
introduced last year by the Minister of Agriculture. That scheme has proved very successful.
It is now being extended, and I believe a great deal of our capacity to earn a living 3 or 4
years from now will depend upon it. The Leader of the Opposition was also concerned about
the fertiliser subsidy. Provided we have a 2 000 000 tonne input of fertiliser, the grass will
continue to grow in a good season, so there is no point in over investing. The rate of subsidy
is still at a high level: over $80 million has been provided for fertiliser and related subsidies.
Land and water programmes have been expanded; this will provide for future income. The


## p. 1602 (#58) ############################################

1602
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
noxious weeds subsidy has been increased. These programmes were not plucked out of the
air; they are part of a conscious process to assist the farming industry and the rural economy.
The Government is concerned with the growth of exports, and will work with the
manufacturers to develop a more effective export incentive system. Much has already been
done, and exports have continued to rise despite the Australian devaluation. Attention has
been given to the problems of production and productivity, as well as to exporting and the
efficient use of capital plant. The Leader of the Opposition expressed concern about regional
development, but if he had read the Budget he would have seen the measures it contained to
further assist regional development. Everybody will know that regional development comes
from resources and from local effort. The Government can only assist; it will not try to pluck
some new programme out of the air, as the Leader of the Opposition did in the West Coast.
The Government will build on human and material resources. It will give only the
assistance that is needed-such as the differential freight proposal for the South Island. That
provision recognises the fact that some industries are having difficulty because of their
limited market position. The Government is aware of the problems of manufacturing goods
in the South Island when the market is in the North Island or Australia. That is the world we
live in, and with which we must cope. There is little point in trying to wish it away.
The Government has no wish to throw away industry in any region, but we must build
on our major possibilities. I cannot understand the failure of the Leader of the Opposition to
pick up that point more emphatically. The packages in the Budget for the development of
fishing, energy, and transport provide guidelines for future development that will certainly
help, and may enable us to break out of the economic strait-jacket in which we find ourselves
today. I believe they are the most significant parts of the Budget, and are good examples of
the wider-ranging economic planning suggested by the Holmes task force when it wrote the
blue print, New Zealand at the Turning Point. The Government has picked up that
challenge, and has written it into this Budget.
I pay a special tribute to the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Energy Resources,
and the Minister of Fisheries for the hard work they have done to break out of a tied
situation. New Zealand must make the most of the opportunities that will be provided by the
200-mile fishing zone, which is the biggest opportunity for the development of New Zealand
industry since the refrigeration evolution 100 years ago. We have to recognise that we are a
sea land, in fact as in name, and break out of a situation in which we left the fishing resources
of our waters to other countries. This Budget extends the basis for fishing in terms of people,
in its measures for training, and for the lending of money for equipment and boats. I hope
members opposite will be delighted, as I am sure the people in the north are, at the decision
to encourage boat building in New Zealand. The Government is meeting the request of the
Fishing Industry Board for assistance. Money and organisation is vital for an industry on the
point of take-off. I hope the Opposition will accept that it is sensible for the Minister of
Fisheries to travel overseas to establish a link with some of the nations with which we have to
develop our fishing industry.
The Leader of the Opposition could not see much in the Budget proposals for energy.
He had the opportunity to do these things, but he missed it. New Zealand's oil bill of $500
million is killing the country's balance of payments. Our growth, as that of any other modern
nation, depends on energy, and we have to restructure our energy resources. We are in a
state of national emergency, and are determined to take carefully planned emergency action.
That is what the Minister of Energy is about, and that is what the Government is about.
Probably our most vital need is to make massive inroads into our importation of oil over the
next 10 years. We have taken the initial steps towards that. It is possible to break out of our
difficulty if we can find and conserve our own energy resources. The Budget covers this
objective. It will also help if we can get a better price for our energy, as the Government has
made clear to Comalco. The wide-ranging programme in the Budget is centred on small
hydro-electric development, coal and geothermal research, and on-shore drilling. It is vital
to our future. The investments in those programmes will be returned many-fold in the
future.
The Leader of the Opposition was initially critical of State action in exploration. This is
a small country, and the State has controlled nearly all our energy resources through almost
all our recent history. The Rt. Hon. J. G. Coates was the first to develop the State hydro
system, because major development was virtually impossible without State direction and
support. The Labour Government got nothing done with on-shore exploration. The
National Government has faced up to a similar difficulty and has said, "If we cannot get it
done by the oil interests we will do it ourselves." The proving of energy resources is vital to


## p. 1603 (#59) ############################################

26 July
1603
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
our future. It is the basis for planning, for borrowing, and for investment in energy. Some of
the measures we will have to take will require the much larger and better staffed department
that the Minister of Energy Resources is setting up. Britain and Norway are running huge
overseas trading deficits on the strength of their North Sea oil reserves. We cannot do the
same, but we can make an investment to discover what resources we have. The geological
and seismic prospects are sufficient to warrant a continuing exploration programme. From
the financial point of view the money will be well spent, and I hope the Opposition will
support the Government's action.
Meantime, the Budget provides for very sensible tax and loan measures to speed up the
use of gas and home insulation, and to slow down the use of electricity. We all know the
rising cost of developing electricity generation. A television programme tonight showed the
development of the Pukaki and Tekapo schemes and the last stages of the great Waitaki
scheme. The next stage on the Clutha River will be even more expensive. We are getting to
the point at which a wider knowledge of our energy resources is necessary so that
development can be planned more efficiently and effectively.
In the transport sector, the Government has held decisions over until the presentation
of the Budget so that their importance in management and planning could be conveyed to
the country. I do not need to go into this, because the Minister of Transport will handle it. I
ask the Opposition whether it is for or against the measures that have been announced. It
probably does not know. The Leader of the Opposition was very definite that he knew about
the Carter report and the Wilbur Smith report. I think the latter came out in 1972. The
Labour Government then had 3 years in power. It produced a green paper-I guess that was
for naivety. It produced a white paper-I guess that was for somnolence. It had green papers
and white papers galore, and there was a great deal of noise from the member for Timaru,
but no action. The reason was that the matter was complex, involved a large number of
pressure groups, and required difficult decisions. I suppose the member for Timaru could
not get his colleagues to accept them. We have had 18 months of very difficult analysis. I do
not make any apology for that, because we have taken decisions—and the member for
Timaru found that very difficult to do. There were deep-seated transport problems and the
Government had grasped the nettle in this Budget. The way is now open for modernisation
of the road and rail systems and their methodology.
Mr Hunt: The Minister doesn't believe what he is saying.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The only success we could have would be the departure of
the member for New Lynn, and then we could get down to the real business of discussing the
Budget. I believe that even in New Lynn the Budget proposals will be of assistance. I
imagine that the member for New Lynn is probably not aware that the Auckland Regional
Authority is very grateful for the Budget assistance with urban transport. There is a great
deal of relief in Wellington because of the Government's assistance-interim assistance, but
of a major kind for the road and rail systems. We have injected the finance that was so
critical for those systems and have offered proposals for restructuring the administration,
and provided a sound basis for long-term development of urban transport. I suggest that
even the member for New Lynn might, in time, be grateful for those decisions. It will take
him a little time to catch up with them, but I guess he will. New Zealanders are a mobile
people, and we all recognise the vital importance of transport to our economy and our
society.
We are also a versatile people, and that can be recognised in the drive that the Budget
emphasises asking people to work harder, work efficiently, and work productively. That is
what the Budget is all about. The Government has done well by the country and by the
economy in bringing us back from economic disaster. We have got off the Gadarene slope on
to which the Labour Government had led us. As I said before, overseas institutions like the
OECD and the IMF recognise that we have adopted difficult measures. We still have a long
way to go.
The challenge now is to consolidate those measures and break out of the economic
strait-jacket in which we find ourselves. The Budget sets the ground rules. We have to earn
our living more efficiently in order to export 2 percent more per annum or find the
equivalent in import substitution. That is the measure of the task. It is well within our range
if we work together; if we remember that New Zealand is on its own; and if we remember
that it will eventually have to pay for any help it seeks overseas. That point has been made
clear in the Budget. We have said to our friends in Australia in terms of trade, to our friends
in Japan in terms of fishing, to our friends in Europe in terms of the need for permanent
trading arrangements, and to the multi-nationals in the changing energy situation, "We want


## p. 1604 (#60) ############################################

1604
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
to work with you, but you must work with us, too." The Government wants to work in an
international climate based on co-operation, but it must work in terms of New Zealand's
own interests. That is what the Budget works for, too.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau): It is obvious that the Associate Minister of Finance
had a major part in writing the Budget. His speech proved as boring as the Budget, and
about as short on ideas. We heard words and more words, cliché after cliché, but not one
new idea or one fact. The tragedy is that, without direction, the country will face the
prospect of a further devaluation within the next 6 months. The Associate Minister of
Finance suggested that the reduction in the current account deficit was a major Government
achievement; but it was achieved by adding fuel to the fires of inflation and then raking in
the extra taxation thereby created.
This evening the Leader of the Opposition outlined some positive policy points about
housing. I shall expand on one or two of those points. The Prime Minister, in one of his more
incredible statements, recently said that growing public concern about housing was against
the facts. He went on to say that everything was rosy, because house sale prices had risen by
only X percent and thousands of people had fled the country, so there was little demand for
housing. He ignored the fact that first home owners do not have the opportunity to buy
existing houses. The Prime Minister's statement is an incredible example of using half a
statistic-he is ignoring the quite tragic situation that really exists. Housing is one of New
Zealand's most serious problems, The Budget does nothing to help solve that problem, and
therefore tonight I intend to look at housing and to offer some solutions to the problems.
All New Zealanders grow up in the expectation that they will get a home of their own.
They look, as a fundamental right, to a home that provides a stable base for a growing
family, and is paid for over a working lifespan. The Labour Party agrees with them and
acknowledges that the fulfilment of that right is one of the most important responsibilities of
any Government. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Housing may not care to know
about it, but there is a generation of young families who now have no hope of owning their
own homes. Why is there a generation of young families with no hope of owning homes of
their own? For a start, how can an average working couple save for a home? Look at any
"To let" column in the newspapers and see if you can find a one-bedroomed flat for under
$30 a week? Then think of what families with three and four children must be paying. Any
family coping with 20 percent inflation, controlled wages, crippling taxes, rates, and
uncontrolled rents, has little hope of extricating itself from such a situation. It is forced into a
poverty trap not of its making.
Housing Corporation tenants also are trapped. Increases in income over $100 a week
are taxed at an effective rate of more than 80c in the dollar. We are putting families that rent
into a poverty trap, ensuring that they stay there, and then we wonder when a man in that
situation reacts in despair. The problem is clear. What then should we do? Rents should be
frozen for at least 2 years, with only increased costs allowed. Speculators and rent racketeers
have made their piles, and it is time to call a halt. A rent freeze would stabilise the rental
market and provide a breathing space until costs could be brought under control. It would
give families hope and enable them to save money towards their own homes. To this end the
home ownership scheme introduced by the Labour Government should be promoted
vigorously.
The second item I want to deal with is the deposit gap. Three years ago a builder could
provide a home for a young family for a deposit of between $700 and $5,000. Today, a
deposit of between $8,000 and $13,000 is needed, and costs are going up all the time. This
tragic situation was not brought about by a shortage of mortgage finance-although I shall
have something to say about the cost later-but because lending rules are not suited to the
current relationship between incomes and house prices. It is arguable whether the money is
available. For all its proud words the Government's measures have done little to stimulate
the flow of funds from the private sector so confidently promised by the Minister of Energy
Resources during 1975. There is a deposit gap, and it is widening every day.
In October 1975, under Labour, a typical married man, with three children, receiving
the average wage was eligible-on a house costing $25,000-for a basic loan of $14,000, a
low-income supplement of $2,000, a dollar-for-dollar subsidy of $2,000, and a section loan of
$4,800, all at an initial interest rate of 3 percent, giving weekly repayments of about $22.30 a
week. Taking his family benefit capitalisation of $2,000 into account, in 1975 this young man
had to raise less than $1,000 for a deposit on a home. What is the situation of that same man
today? With no section loan, no low-income supplement, and no capitalisation, the most he
can expect from the Housing Corporation is a loan of $14,000. His weekly repayments at the


## p. 1605 (#61) ############################################

26 July
1605
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
new interest rate will be about $27.30, since he is no longer eligible for the concessional
interest rate. In addition, he needs a second mortgage of at least $10,000. If he lives in
Auckland this second mortgage of $10,000 will be financed along the following lines: he will
raise a second mortgage of $5,000 from the New Zealand Insurance Co. Repayments on that
will be $22 a week. Then he will go along to the Australian Guarantee Corporation and raise
a personal loan of $5,000; his weekly repayments on that will be $32, making a total
commitment of $81 a week. Before the Budget his weekly commitments were $76.90; as a
result of the Budget they have increased to just over $81 a week. In other words, for the man
on the average wage, working a little overtime, the real cost of buying a home has increased
from $23 a week or thereabouts under the Labour Government to more than $80 a week
under National. That is a 250 percent increase.
The Housing Corporation, as one would expect, has an answer to the problem-on a
typical package like the one I have outlined it will lend only if the weekly income of the
couple buying the home is more than $240. If you earn less than $240 a week, do not bother
to apply. Is that really housing the way the family man on the low or single income wants it?
The problem is clear, and so is the answer. As the Prime Minister said on 8 January 1975
from his cottage at Hatfield's Beach, mortgage finance available from the Housing Corpora-
tion is nowhere near enough. I am sure that many young couples would welcome having
even a cottage, but that was what the Prime Minister said in 1975.
The first step, therefore, must surely be to provide more finance from the Housing
Corporation. The second step must be to provide that finance on a first-mortgage basis-that
is, 80 percent of the cost of a reasonably priced home. I shall not say 85 percent as promised
in the Government's manifesto, but 80 percent. That policy should be implemented
immediately, and it could be done in the following manner. First, as loans would be on an 80
percent one-mortgage basis, the demand for Housing Corporation finance would increase
dramatically and some queueing would be essential. Priority should be given to those who
have saved through the home ownership account system, those who have saved a substantial
deposit of their own, or those with an urgent housing need.
I am sure that first home owners would be prepared to wait for up to, say 2 years for a
one-mortgage loan rather than be burdened with the present system, which lets thousands of
young couples scramble into homes only to cripple their marriages and their personal lives
with exorbitant interest rates forced on them by this Government's policy. There are many
young couples whose loan repayments are between $60 and $90 a week. These payments are
crippling their marriages and their personal lives, and they would be quite happy to wait a
little longer for a loan if they could get it on a one-mortgage basis, with repayments of
between $25 and $35 a week.
The third item I want to deal with tonight is mortgage finance. During the 1975 election
campaign the Minister of Energy Resources, who was recently sacked as Minister of Housing
because he had deliberately broken every promise in the housing field he ever made on
behalf of the National Party—
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I do not think we can allow a member to say that
another member has deliberately broken promises. That is going a bit too far. One can break
promises, but not deliberately.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: But it's correct.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I do not need any assistance from the honourable member.
The remark implies dishonesty, and I cannot allow it.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: I shall withdraw it, and say that during the 1975 election
campaign the present Minister of Energy Resources said that a National Government would
introduce a totally new deal in housing finance. He also said that the National Party's
election policy would have regard to the fact that the most important aspect of housing was
the provision of finance in reasonable amounts and at reasonable rates of interest. He said
that first mortgage money at 10 percent or higher made no sense at all. That was in 1975-so
much for the promises of the National Party. Let us look at its performance. First mortgage
interest rates are running at record levels-10.92 percent in February 1977, 11 percent in
March 1977, and still rising. They will go higher as a result of the Budget measures. As for
the promise by the Minister of Energy Resources to create "a totally new deal in home
finance", one has to admit that this promise has been fulfilled, but not, however, the new
deal that people looked forward to.
At a time when people are being forced to seek substantial amounts of mortgage finance
on the open market, the money is simply not there on reasonable terms. The release in this
Budget of $35 million through the trustee savings banks and the private savings banks is a


## p. 1606 (#62) ############################################

1606
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
mere drop in the bucket. The Government's monetary policies have allowed open slather in
the mortgage market. Its policy is apparently designed deliberately to ensure that the highest
bidder gets the money. Interest rates are at record levels, private sector first mortgage rates
now exceed 12 percent, and second mortgage finance is virtually unobtainable from
conventional sources. Most law firms have bailed out. Finance companies such as Broad-
lands, Marac, and the Australian Guarantee Corporation have moved in to fill the gap,
offering high rates of interest on money deposited with them. By this means they have
cornered the market, and in turn are charging true rates of interest of up to 22 percent on
second mortgages to young couples. As a result it is not uncommon for people to be paying
$50, $60, or even $70 a week in interest repayments alone, without touching the principal.
This can leave average single-income families as little as $30 a week to live on; to feed and
educate their children. People are forced to take second and even third jobs to keep up with
their commitments. Social workers, doctors, and teachers report that worry over money is a
major factor in the break-up of families and violence in the home. The problem is clear.
What then is the answer?
I suggest that the inquiry set up by the Labour Government into the financial structure
of the mortgage market should be completed. Although not appearing to have completely
shelved it, the present Government is doing little to push the inquiry to a satisfactory
completion. The National Housing Commission stated in its 1976 report: "The commission
remains deeply concerned over the provision of adequate mortgage finance for housing. In
its last report the commission emphasised the crucial need to carry out a fundamental
examination of the whole structure of housing finance. In 1975 the Government set up a
committee comprising officials of Treasury, the Reserve Bank, and the Housing Corporation
to investigate this question. The commission was closely involved with the establishment of
the terms of reference of the committee, and has followed its progress with considerable
interest. It is understood that the investigative work of the committee is proceeding well and
it is expected that close liaison between the commission and the committee will continue." It
is obvious that this work was still proceeding in 1976. It is interesting to note, however, that
no mention of the inquiry is made in the housing commission's 1977 report. One can only
surmise that the Government has pushed the inquiry into the background, and is happy with
the present mortgage market and the exorbitant rates of interest being charged.
The report should be completed urgently, and, until it is completed and action taken on
it, the Government must, in the short term, keep Housing Corporation interest rates down.
The Government's action in lifting the prime rate from 5.5 percent in 1975 to 8.5 percent
adds about $10,000 to the interest charge during the term of the average corporation loan. I
suggest that this action is irresponsible in present circumstances, when one considers the
interest rates that people are having to pay in the private sector. People should be given a
mortgage at an interest rate of not more than 5.5 percent for the first 5 years of the
mortgage. That would allow young couples to get on their feet. The rate could be revised at
the end of the 5 years, and increased as circumstances permit and according to the
circumstances of the borrower.
The fourth area I want to deal with is the refinancing of existing mortgages. Thousands
of hardworking families are now faced with the prospect of having their homes sold over
their heads-in fact, of losing their homes and the equity they have built up-because they
cannot find money in the private sector to refinance their existing loans. Unless people in
these circumstances are prepared to refinance through companies that have sprung up over
the last year, such as Alexander Ross and Co., at 18 percent for first mortgages, then it is not
possible for them to do so, or, at best, very difficult. Solicitors will endeavour to help, but
are finding it more and more difficult to do so. The present position is both wasteful and
tragic. What should be done?
The first thing is to recognise the problem, and not to turn a blind eye to it as the
National Government is doing. The second point is to recognise that, if the correct overall
housing policies are adopted, the problem of refinancing existing mortgages should be of a
short-term nature only. In these circumstances the Government should release the Housing
Corporation from its commitment, say for the next 2 years, to pay interest on Government
loans. The money so released-more than $20 million a year-could be used by the Housing
Corporation to refinance existing mortgages. I make that suggestion only as a short-term
measure, because of the difficult position in which we find ourselves at present.
The Government should simultaneously instruct other institutions, such as the trustee
savings bank and insurance companies, to refinance loans for the next 12 months on the
same basis as they consider new loan applications. With the present problems of refinancing,


## p. 1607 (#63) ############################################

26 July
1607
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
it is absolute nonsense that the trustee savings banks, for example, will lend to a customer to
enable him to buy an existing house, but will not lend to another customer, the seller of that
house, to allow him to refinance an existing mortgage and thus save his home. These short-
term measures would go a long way towards solving refinancing problems.
The fifth matter I shall deal with tonight is the state of the building industry. It is
interesting to note what the Prime Minister said on 20 November 1974, when he was Leader
of the Opposition-that it made no sense to put builders out of business when more houses
were needed. He also said that the Government should free up finance rather than restrict it.
Mr T. J. Young: Who said that?
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: The present Prime Minister.
Mr Hunt: Clearly Opposition talk.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: Yes. The building industry is set to repeat the difficult cycle it
experienced between 1967 and 1972. The industry's real problems began in 1967 when the
Minister of Finance, now the Prime Minister, decided to make it the whipping boy of his
economic policies.
Squadron Leader Drayton: The chopping block.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: Yes. He did this through the same negative policies he is now
using to hold housing production at the low level of 22 000 units a year when demand, based
on real need, is for more than 30 000 units a year. The policy of holding housing production
at an articially low level between 1967 and 1972 created a demand bubble that had to burst,
and burst it did in 1972. The largest single cause of the housing price boom of late 1972 and
1973 was the reckless Budget introduced by the present Prime Minister in 1972. That
expansionary Budget pushed too much money into circulation, creating a boom, because the
industry had been held down for 5 years. Added to that was the 1972-73 export boom, which
flooded the country with money. The run-down building industry was unable to meet the
demand, so prices soared. The activities of the property speculators-the friends of the
Government-added fuel to the fire, and also forced prices up.
The Labour Government dealt with the situation in several effective ways. First, it
passed the Property Speculation Act; secondly, it used the Housing Corporation to build up
a land bank-already referred to by the Leader of the Opposition this evening-to stabilise
land prices; and, thirdly, it followed tight monetary policy and developed a farm equalisation
scheme, that siphoned off money in the boom areas and generally helped to stabilise the
economy. Those policies worked. In 1975, house prices increased by only 4.2 percent, but,
regrettably, the difficult cycle appears to be beginning again. We have the same Minister of
Finance adopting the same negative policies of 1967 to 1972, and again using the building
industry as a chopping block. From the statistics available for the first 3 months of this year,
it looks as if production for 1977-78 will return to a level of between 22 000 and 23 000 units,
at a time when the housing need is for more than 30 000 units a year. Unless action is taken a
demand will be created similar to that occurring between 1967 and 1972, to the detriment of
all New Zealanders, especially those seeking their first home.
The problems are clear. What are the answers? Under the Labour Government,
housing was a matter of social concern, not just an economic issue. Apart from the need to
provide homes for people, there are economic arguments for sustaining the building
industry, but the Government is not interested. The industry is labour-intensive, so it
provides jobs for both skilled and relatively unskilled workers. As it uses as much as 95
percent New Zealand content, it is not a drain on our overseas funds. When the economy is
generally lurching unsteadily towards a recession, pushed and prodded by the present
Government, the building industry, especially the house building industry, is ideally able to
provide a good measure of stability. Although paying lip service to the role of private
enterprise and the so-called free enterprise of market forces, the National Government has
always ignored that argument. Its election manifesto promised a new deal for people who
wanted to own their own homes. However, by a combination of greed, disinterest, and
economic blindness, it has ensured that the working people have no chance of getting a home
of their own on terms they can manage.
The building industry is very worried about its future, as well it might be. Skilled
tradesmen are leaving the country in unprecedented numbers. Tinkering around the edges of
the problem will not get anybody anywhere. The situation will be saved only by a
fundamental attack on the basic financial problems. The Government shows no sign of
having the wit to do this. In fact, on the evidence so far. a great many New
Zealanders-decent ordinary blokes, as the Leader of the Opposition reminded us, and to
use the Prime Minister's words-will never have the chance of owning their own homes


## p. 1608 (#64) ############################################

1608
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
under this or any future National Government.
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): Opposition members
looked a crestfallen group on the evening the Budget was delivered. It was apparent even to
them that the Budget was a statesmanlike document, which they could not fault. It was
equally obvious tonight that the Leader of the Opposition was dispirited. He smiles now, in
the knowledge that at least he has done his best on behalf of his party; but it was not good
enough. He said that we had surrendered to inflation, but nothing is further from the truth.
The Budget shows that we have inflation in check. The deficit before borrowing is as low as
$382 million, a figure considerably less than that which the Leader of the Opposition had in
mind as he was thrown out of office. He mentioned industrial problems. When has the
Opposition ever come to the party to try to resolve major industrial disputes? Where were
members opposite when the Marsden Point power station strike was on; when construction
of the Bank of New Zealand building was held up; and when freezing works were out? On
those occasions they were silent, but tonight they talk piously about handling industrial
stoppages. They are not prepared to make any contribution.
The member for Manukau said that we on this side were short on ideas. He would not
know a good idea if he saw one. His ideas have been disastrous: the selective superannuation
scheme that denied coverage to women and the unpaid work force; and his approach to
television, which almost resulted in bankruptcy. He spoke about home ownership, but did
not say that it was the Labour Government's policy that put home ownership beyond the
reach of young people, when in 3 years house prices went up by 66 percent, and section
prices by 164 percent. He did not have a word of encouragement to young people to save
before borrowing. He spoke of the plight of the building industry. There has been a
downturn, but he referred back to the golden days of 1973-74. They were golden days in his
opinion, but he should know that the building industry admits that it does not want to revert
to a situation such as existed at that time, when it expanded to bursting point and faced
problems it could not handle.
Never in our history has a Prime Minister or a Minister of Finance had a more difficult
climate in which to launch a Budget. Never before have we had a more forward-looking
Budget than that which has just been presented. It highlights the difference between the
socialist Opposition and the National Government. When it took office in 1972 the Labour
Government inherited record, and increasing internal and external balances, which had been
built up over the years by the National Government. In three short years the Labour
Government squandered those reserves and ran the country into a serious deficit. The
Labour Government worked on the principle of eat, drink, and be merry, with little regard
for the future; and it let the future take care of itself. It left the burden to somebody else.
The dramatic growth of our internal deficit under Labour speaks for itself. In the year ended
March 1973, Labour's first in office- the deficit was $206 million in March 1974 it was $390
million; and in the last year of that desperate Administration the Budget figures showed a
deficit of $497 million. But when we took office Treasury told us that under the Labour
Administration the deficit would have been $1,200 million. In its short period of disaster it
took us from an internal deficit of $206 million to a potential one of $1,200 million.
That was the position according to Treasury figures. Indeed, projecting it through to the
following year, 1976-77, if the National Government had followed the policies of the former
Labour Government we would have faced an internal deficit of $1,400 million. What a sorry
record of Labour muddlement; but our Prime Minister shaped up to the situation and in the
remaining four short months of the financial year ended March 1976 he managed to cut the
potential deficit of $1,200 million to about $1,000 million. For the 1976-77 year, the
projected $1,400 million that would have resulted under a Labour Government was cut back
to $506 million. This year the estimated deficit has been further reduced to $382 million.
What a turn-round! Under Labour, each year there was an ever-increasing deficit, but since
the return of the National Government an ever-reducing amount of borrowing has been
needed to balance the Budget. At the same time we have reduced the spiralling inflation.
The true inflation figures were disguised by Labour in massive subsidies, which resulted in a
heavy demand on the taxpayer and unrealistic charges for services.
The nation's economy is much like a ship under way. If it is going forward it takes a lot
of stopping. The Labour Government inherited a forward-going economy in 1972, but in its
3 years in office the economy was not merely halted, but was put in reverse. Already the
National Government has arrested that reverse, and the ship of State is now going steadily
forward. The Budget has the ingredients for progress; investment in development will
benefit New Zealand in the years ahead. What a contrast with Labour, which would have left


## p. 1609 (#65) ############################################

26 July
1609
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
us with an impossible debt load. Fortunately the people saw the problem and tossed the
former Labour Government out. The National Government has not relished the task of
imposing restraints to live within our income, but it has courageously shaped up to its
responsibilities in a manner that I know is understood and accepted by most New Zealan-
ders. We have applied restraints that are tidying up the economy and checking inflation
without increasing unemployment and without drastic taxation measures. This has been
described by an economist of world standing as an economic miracle-and it certainly is.
On the subject of taxation, the House should be reminded that if a Labour Government
had been returned to office those covered by Labour's superannuation scheme would have
been paying 2.5 percent of their wages as a special tax in addition to the present tax rate—$3
a week extra on the average weekly wage, or $150 a year. The Prime Minister, the Minister
of Finance, has relieved the people of that taxation burden, which would have provided for
an inadequate superannuation scheme. Under Labour, employers also would have had to
pay a similar amount—a multi-million-dollar tax rip-off for an interior selective superannua-
tion scheme, typical of the member for Manukau when he was in Government. His speech
tonight sounded good in the first instance, but his promises prove pretty bitter pill to
swallow. The comprehensive national superannuation scheme has been funded without any
special tax.
The Budget is an imaginative document containing the ingredients for progress. It is a
realistic document. Our energy policy is a comprehensive approach, grappling with the
assurance of energy for the future on a broad basis and with the objective of reducing
dependence on overseas supplies, which, apart from their ever-increasing cost, have a
measure of unrealiability. Apart from the continuation of hydro development this Budget
provides for an accelerated programme of investigation and development of alternative
energy sources. I particularly welcome the expanded geothermal investigation programme,
which will mean a trebling of investigative drilling programmes. This will place a heavy
demand on the Ministry of Works and Development, but I am sure my department can rise
to the occasion.
I mentioned the comprehensive approach to energy, and it is significant that, as part of
the Budget package, in addition to encouraging development of our resources, emphasis is
placed on and there are inducements for the more efficient use of available resources;
financial encouragement for the use of natural gas; and interest-free loans for home
insulation. One would have expected the wholehearted support of the Opposition for our
Budget energy package, but probably it was so imaginative and practical as to be beyond the
comprehension of the Opposition.
The provision for water and soil development, which is within my portfolio, gives me
much satisfaction. The statement under Land Settlement and Development on page 13 of
the Budget that, "The Government is increasing its funding for water and soil projects,
including the provision of an additional $2.9 million in the current financial year to
commence new projects with high economic potential", has a welcome and much greater
significance than that simple sentence conveys. The total expenditure for water and soil
conservation has been increased from $20 million to $27 million for the 1977-78 year. The
significance of an increase of more than one third is most important. It is good news for many
farmers, who have been awaiting an assurance of Government financial support for
approved rural water schemes. Those with technically approved schemes, 11 in number,
have the go-ahead. Further schemes will be approved if they meet productivity and
engineering criteria. Likewise, approved catchment schemes can go ahead provided they
meet appropriate criteria.
This massive increase of funds from the Government, together with finance from the
local communities, will see a level of finance and activity in the water and soil sector never
previously attained. For example, funding for the Hikurangi Swamp scheme in the North
and additional work on the stopbanking of the Waihou River on the Hauraki Plains will be
accelerated; the eagerly awaited Waiau Plains irrigation scheme will be started; and there
will be a stepping up of the work commenced last year at Maniototo, which scheme alone
had been allocated $500,000 this year for continuation of work promoted and commenced by
a National Government after years of talk and deliberation by the Labour Government,
which did absolutely nothing. These are examples of what the increased expenditure means,
an indication that this National Government means what it says when it speaks of assisting
farmers in the best use of water for production. It is tangible proof that when this
Government speaks of multi-purpose development of water resources farm needs are well to
the forefront. The people of the Clutha Valley have these benefits ahead of them in the


## p. 1610 (#66) ############################################

1610
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
development of their river. The $500,000 previously allocated for irrigation investigations is
a further forerunner of things to come for the Clutha development.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: What about the apricot orchards?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: The member for Timaru may chirp up, but his Government did
none of the things covered by the expansion in this Budget. We are starting schemes that
were only on paper. The member for Timaru can speak a little later, and if he can provide
something constructive it will be of great help to his Labour friends, who are certainly in
need of some assistance at this stage.
I come back to the point I was making, that we on this side of the House believe in the
multiple use of water. Apart from this Budget, we have already allocated $500,000 to the
Clutha River scheme for irrigation investigations. When the Clutha scheme is completed we
will be in the forefront in seeing that the irrigation needs are met in practice, not with just
talk.
The National Government has courageously and comprehensively tackled the problems
of transport and roading. The two are closely linked. My firm belief is that, arising from the
Budget decisions, we will have a more efficient transportation system. At the local level and
as a Wellingtonian I welcome the assistance to urban passenger transport.
In 1970 the National Government initiated proposals in the Carter report to assist urban
passenger transport, but when Labour came in the thought of practical assistance was
forgotten. The availability of $6.8 million in the current year as part of a 5-year programme
involving $50 million will be good news to the municipalities that recently have been fighting
a losing battle against rising costs to try to maintain a viable passenger transport system. It
will mean that vehicles still in service despite having outlived their economic lives can now be
gracefully retired. Despite its having been obvious for several years that major changes were
required to goods transportation methods, it is this Government in this Budget that has
taken action. The extension of the road limit from 40 miles to 93.5 miles, or, in metric terms,
from 64 kilometres to 150 kilometres, will indeed give motor hauliers greater flexibility and
efficiency in operation.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: What will the distance levy be?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: That is a good question that I shall answer in due course, if the
honourable member will only be patient. He need not expect it tonight. When he was
Minister he could not come up with the answer. The Auckland-Hamilton and Wellington-
Palmerston North routes are now a venue for competition between rail and road. What did
the Leader of the Opposition have to say about that? He said that this Government was anti-
energy and anti-railways. He nods his head. What a short memory he has! It was a National
Government that introduced the Silver Fern and Silver Star between Auckland and Welling-
ton, the Endeavour express to Napier, and modernised the Southerner and the Northerner, as
well as introducing containers and heavy diesel locomotives. Those were National Govern-
ment railway achievements that the Labour Government never looked like matching. It is
putting on 25 cabooses. For the information of the member I should explain that they are
elaborate guards' vans.
However, to come back to road operators: at the same time as they are being given an
extension of their operations it has been decided to reassess the charges levied on heavy
vehicles to ensure that their operators pay their proper share of road charges. At present the
ratio of charges levied on lighter vehicles has been disproportionately high, and conversely
that on heavy vehicles inadequate for the demands they make on roading. It should mean
that roading will get its proper payment for heavy transport wear and tear, which could be
accentuated as a result of the road haulage limit extensions. Unquestionably in recent times
there has been too much uncertainty about roading finance. It is common knowledge that
the Labour Government would have abolished the National Roads Board. It is common
knowledge that in its green paper it spelt out its abandonment in the statement, "One might
question the appropriateness, in the light of modern development of the roads board's
organisation and method of securing finance."
The Labour Government would have liked to see the National Roads Board disbanded.
However, to give credit where it is due, the Rt. Hon. Hugh Watt stood up for the roads
board; and I think the Opposition could do with him back in its ranks. It seems he might be
staging a comeback, and he would be a worth-while acquisition. However, if the Labour
Government did not directly destroy the board, its policy did it incalculable harm. For the
year ended 1975, when Labour went out of office, inflation in the construction industry was
more than 20 percent per annum. Compounded inflation, a direct result of Labour policy,
more than doubled roading costs. A punitive increase in petrol taxation reduced sales and


## p. 1611 (#67) ############################################

26 July
1611
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the board's revenue. The Labour Government could have afforded to make some of the $75
million available to the board by way of adjustment.
Major works can take 3 years or longer, and the roads board has been in a most difficult
position in opening up major work without assured forward finance. While, as chairman of
the National Roads Board, I have appreciated Government assistance over and above basic
income, that has not meant that the board could plan with assurance. This Government gave
the board $21 million last year—its biggest ever grant-and this year provided an extra lc
per litre as of right. Although this last grant placed the board's finances on a firmer footing,
there were uncertainties about the future.
Further steps announced in the Budget will provide the board with two sources of
reliable income: petrol tax from the car users, and a new distance charge to be introduced on
1 April 1978 on heavy commercial vehicles. Under this system, roading will be operated on a
true user-pays basis, which has always been intended in the National Roads Act, but which
has fallen into disrepair over recent years. The board itself will be involved in determining
the rates for these user charges, assessed in such a manner that a programme of works that
has been agreed on by both the Government and the board can be implemented. Undoub-
tedly, the downhill slide in roading works will be arrested by this system, and many of the
improvements deferred over recent years will have better prospects of becoming reality.
Transportation costs are a vital factor in New Zealand's internal and external economy.
An improved roading system aimed at minimising transport costs can only help the situation
we all face at present. The National Roads Board has proven itself to be one of our more
successful institutions in achieving the purposes for which it was established. With the
improvements announced in the Budget we are entering a new era, in which the board will
continue to play an even stronger part in the transport economy of the country. However, we
should not forget that roading activities have been seriously depressed over recent years, and
many areas have been reduced to a policy of almost care and maintenance only. This cannot
be changed overnight, but the stage has been set for a move in the right direction.
Speaking in general terms, many Budget provisions will be looked forward to by the
community, but the Opposition has failed to see their importance. The $25 rate rebate is a
forward step, as is the adjustment in taxation for the man on a low or medium income.
Surely those measures are worth a word of praise from the Opposition. The Opposition has
not said a word about the impetus given to education, or about social welfare and health
measures, which show the Government's humanitarian attitude. No mention has been made
of the incentives given to the farming and fishing industries. I wonder if the Opposition has
read the Budget, because it has had little to say about its contents. There is much good news
in the Budget for all sectors of the community. The Opposition recognises this, not by what it
says, but in what it does not say. Its dispirited opposition is an indication of the soundness of
the Budget. Rarely have I seen a member go to sleep while his leader was speaking, yet this
was witnessed tonight as an indication of the Opposition's general disinterest in and laxness
toward the Budget. The Government has given a lead and provided incentives. It is up to the
country to follow the lead, and if it does so we will be taking a very great step, not sideways,
but forward to prosperity.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): It was very interesting to hear the Minister of
Works and Development speaking, as he should, about his portfolio, and trying to defend
the Government's economic policies. I was surprised at the way he spoke about the extra
money the Government was making available to his portfolio. The statistics I have available
to me and they are contained in the Budget-show that if one takes the effective values of
the works and roading vote last year and this year, and compares them with the amount
voted in the last year of the Labour Government, one finds that the Government has
provided $193 million less for works and roading in 2 years than that provided by the Labour
Government.
Time will show whether the proposed new roading approach mentioned in the Budget,
and by the Minister, is all it is represented to be. Everyone knows that the policies on
roading followed by the Government have plunged thousands of skilled workers into
unemployment, and forced plant, equipment, and contractors' equipment into idleness.
Roading, bridging, and maintenance have been run down to the worst levels for many years.
That is the record of the Government. The funds available under the Works vote this year
are not sufficient to effectively do as much work as was done during the last year of the
Labour Government. Already the Minister of Works and Development, in reply to a
question, has admitted that the funds available to the National Roads Board this year will
not enable it to do effectively as much as was done under the last Labour Government.


## p. 1612 (#68) ############################################

1612
26 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
As for the Minister's suggestion that the Government is able to finance national
superannuation without increasing taxes, I remind the House and the country that this
Government has collected nearly $2,200 million more tax than was collected in the last year
of the Labour Government. It has increased taxation to that extent. In addition, it has cut
subsidies, increased interest rates, increased rents, increased rail and Post Office charges,
and cut and deferred expenditure in economic and social fields. This is how the Government
is finding the money to finance its national superannuation. It is taxing more. That is the
answer to the statement of the Minister of Works and Development.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 1613 (#69) ############################################

27 July
Notices of Motion-Admissibility
1613
WEDNESDAY, 27 JULY 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
SEDDON SHIELD DISTRICTS TROTTING JACKPOT EMPOWERING BILL
Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast): I move, That this Bill be now read a third time. The
Bill has cleared up, once and for all, all the misapprehensions. It ensures that the unclaimed
moneys will not go into the Consolidated Revenue Account, but will go back to the people
who originally contributed to the fund.
Bill read a third time.
NOTICES OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That the House
congratulates Mr D. Shilton of the Eden branch of the National Party for speaking out at the
party's Dunedin conference on Friday last to implore the Government to take action to assist
the hundreds of families losing homes in the growing mortgage finance crisis, and that the
House sympathises with the wife of the National Party delegate who lay in bed sobbing
because she and her husband were unable to refinance a mortgage under this National
Government, and notes that the National Government's Budget offers no real assistance to
the thousands of people suffering because of the chronic National Government-created
shortage of mortgage finance.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): A point of order, Mr Speaker. The notice of motion makes
specific reference to the Budget. As such I believe it is clearly out of order as it anticipates
discussion on an Order of the Day. I would ask that you examine the notice of motion and, if
it is found to be out of order, it should be struck from the record.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): Speaking to the point of order, I am sure you will be able to
inform the member for Franklin that notices of motion have no relevance to his comment
about anticipating on Order of the Day.
Mr SPEAKER: Standing Order 103(c) does relate to that matter, but I will look at the
whole question and make a decision later.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I have not read the notice of
motion, but I understood the member for New Lynn said he was referring to a statement
made by a Mr D. Shilton of the Eden branch of the National Party. If that is what the notice
of motion says, it must be in error, because there is no such person.
Mr SPEAKER: I shall ask the Clerk of the House if he will see whether the matter can
be authenticated, because statements of facts and names must be able to be authenticated.
Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That this
House notes with considerable concern the report in the New Zealand Truth of 26 July
relating to the Dunedin protest, where it was stated, "Mr Muldoon's decision to stay in the
car glaring out at the protesters for at least 2 minutes after arriving-even though his side of
the car was well clear of demonstrators-undoubtedly precipitated the surge on the vehicle";
and is disquieted to note the extravagant and contentious remarks made by the Prime
Minister, especially when the same report stated, "It was a great political coup for Mr
Muldoon. But it was not thuggery."; and also condemns the deliberate attempt by the Prime
Minister to blame the incident on the Labour Party, and asks the House to note that the
Labour Party totally rejects the use of violent methods to achieve any political aims.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest
that this notice of motion is out of order.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: On what grounds?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I am about to give the honourable member the grounds.
One of the organisers, a Jeremy Waldron, has publicly claimed to be an official of the
Labour Party. He is the editor of the newsletter of the Dunedin Central Labour Party. The
notice of motion is out of order because it alleges something that is incorrect.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): Mr Speaker, I do not think you
will have any difficulty determining that the motion of which notice was given by my


## p. 1614 (#70) ############################################

1614
27 July
Notices of Motion-Admissibility
colleague the member for Island Bay is completely in order on all counts; and there are
several, including references to newspaper comments about the Prime Minister's position in
the disorder, and the Labour Party's position, which was enunciated quite clearly by me after
certain political comments were made by the Prime Minister. The comments have no basis in
fact whatsoever.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): Mr Speaker, I shall give you a reference
for the statement I have just made. You will find this week's issue of Truth quite interesting
in many respects. Another article in that same paper recounts the differences between the
Labour member for Dunedin Central-
Mr SPEAKER Order! Does this relate to the notice of motion?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Yes, very closely. The article refers to the individual
Waldron as the editor of the Labour Party's Dunedin Central newsletter. It is not related to
the incident on Friday night; it is related to his difference with his member of Parliament. In
the Otago Daily Times last week he confessed to being the organiser of the disgraceful affair
that occurred in Dunedin on Friday night. Mr Speaker, I give you that reference and suggest
that you read the various articles. The Truth article reads: "The furore broke in an issue of
the electorate newsletter when editor Jeremy Waldron suggested it might be time for a
change..." This is the self-confessed organiser of the disgraceful demonstration on Friday
night. He is an official of the Dunedin Central Labour Party. The notice of motion is out of
order on that point.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I suggest that the Prime
Minister has as he is not unknown for doing-introduced debating material into the point
of order. The notice of motion refers to an action in Dunedin, and the Truth article makes it
quite clear that the action was not the responsibility of the organisers, but of other persons.
Even if everything the Prime Minister said about the organisers was true it has no relevance
to the demonstration.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): On the question of the organisers and
violence, it was surely no coincidence that, if the demonstration was to be peaceful, the
demonstrators arrived with eggs and flour bombs. It is self-evident that the demonstration
was intended to be, as it was, a violent demonstration.
Dr WALL (Porirua): The point of order was that the notice of motion should be ruled
out of order because it stated-and this would appear to be the matter under
discussion-. . . condemns the deliberate attempt by the Prime Minister to blame the
incident on the Labour Party". The Prime Minister is still trying to establish that point.
There is no doubt that a person who happens to be a Labour Party member has announced
that he was one of the organisers. To argue that the incident was the responsibility of the
Labour Party would be the same as arguing that any untoward behaviour by any person of
any organisation was the responsibility of the organisation to which that person belonged.
To accept that principle in the House would be intolerable. It would mean that if a
member of Parliament broke the law, Parliament would be breaking the law. If any member
broke into a bank, on the Prime Minister's argument Parliament would have broken into the
bank. The Prime Minister has been using that argument, and I suggest that it be treated with
the contempt it deserves.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I try to maintain the utmost moderation and logic, and an
absence of jabs and jibes, in discussion of points of order. What the honourable member said
was a reasonable speech addressed to the point of order, but he ended by saying, "Treat it
with the contempt it deserves." That is quite out of order.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The point has been raised under
Standing Order 103(b), which states that notices of motion shall not "Contain any statement
of facts or name of any person unless they are strictly necessary to render the notice
intelligible and can be authenticated". Today we are concerned with authenticity. Mr
Waldron has been identified-
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Self-confessed.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes, self-confessed, as the Prime Minister has said, as a
member of the Labour Party and an organiser of the assault on the citizens of New Zealand
in Dunedin on Friday night. In determining the appropriateness of the notice of motion
under this Standing Order the onus is on the person giving notice to show that the notice of
motion is in accord with the Standing Orders. It is not for individuals in the House, or for
anyone else at whom the motion might be directed, to prove innocence, but rather for the
member for Island Bay to show that his assertions-and that word is not included in the


## p. 1615 (#71) ############################################

27 July
1615
Notices of Motion-Admissibility
Standing Order, which refers to statements of fact, and names of persons-can be authenti-
cated and are necessary.
On that basis I suggest you should examine the notice of motion, and I am sure that
when you have examined it you will find that Mr Waldron is not only a member of the
Labour Party, but is also an organiser of the Labour Party, an official of a Labour Party
publication, and a self-confessed organiser of the assault on the public on Friday night.
Mr SPEAKER: I think we have already wasted too much time on notices of motion
today. I shall hear one more member, one from the Dunedin area-I shall hear Mr Walls,
and then I shall hold the matter over.
RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North): This matter was unofficially discussed at a
meeting of the Castle Street branch of the New Zealand Labour Party, held on 12 July in the
main dining room at the University Union. Mr Jeremy Waldron was present. Prominent in
the front row of the demonstration on Friday evening was Mr Alan McLean, a member of
the Otago Regional Labour Council. Prominent in the window of the Labour Party regional
office in Rattray Street, Dunedin, on Friday last was a sign urging people to "rent a demo".
The notice was removed on Saturday morning, and there is a letter on this, not denied, in
last night's Evening Star.
Mr SPEAKER: I shall also hear the member for Roskill, and that is the end.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): I have no knowledge of what members of the
National Party have claimed occurred at some supposed Labour Party meeting. All I want to
say is that any individual who acted as the Prime Minister said people acted, an accusation
that the police threw some doubt on, would have no support whatever from the New
Zealand Labour Party. It is surprising that National members appear to have such know-
ledge of what happens within the Labour Party in Dunedin-to the point that a National
member of Parliament, so I was told, was a party to the organisation. I reject that suggestion
out of hand, because obviously it was a plant. I sometimes think that when we obtain
information that is not rightly and ethically ours, we should not use it.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): Speaking to the point of order,
Mr Speaker-
Mr SPEAKER: I have said that I shall hear no more discussion. We have had far too
much already.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): A point of order, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: A new point of order?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Yes, indeed.
Mr SPEAKER: First of all, in relation to the point of order that has already been raised,
I should say that I shall hold the matter over and seek authentication. At first look I am
inclined to think the matter is in order. Many of the matters raised seem to me to be more
debating matters than matters relating to the point of order. However, I must look at
Standing Order 103(b), which says that notices shall not contain any statement of facts or
name any person unless it is strictly necessary to render the notice of motion intelligible and
unless it can be authenticated. I shall look further at the matter in that light.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): A point of order, Mr Speaker; an entirely
different and new point of order that I should like you to consider. It relates to the early part
of the same notice of motion, which I have not adverted to previously-the reference to the
fact that I stayed in my car for some little time. I should like you to read the Truth article,
because I believe it has been put in a manner that does not convey the facts. Indeed, the
Truth reporter apologised to me during the weekend for what he had written, and altered it
when he found that I had remained in my car at the request of the police. The member for
Island Bay left that very relevant fact out of his notice of motion.
Mr O'Brien: I didn't know that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: What? Did he say he did not know it?
Mr O'Brien: The Truth reporter has not discussed what was reported in the paper with
the member for Island Bay.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It is in the article the member purports to quote from, and I
suggest that by leaving that very relevant fact out of his notice of motion he invalidates the
notice under our Standing Orders. In other words, his notice of motion gives a misleading
account of the events, and I am sure you, Mr Speaker, will realise that if you compare it with
the article in question.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): The member for Island Bay
claimed it was the Prime Minister's responsibility to authenticate the notice of motion. That
is not correct. The facts that can be authenticated are that members of the National Party,


## p. 1616 (#72) ############################################

1616
27 July
Oral Answers to Questions
including women, were struck before the Prime Minister arrived. That demonstration—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I am afraid we cannot pursue the facts of the matter. It is very
relevant to a consideration of the nature of the incident, but it is not relevant to the nature of
the notice of motion. We have had far too much marginal material already; that is the end of
that notice of motion for the moment.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Unemployment-Labour Department Survey
1. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he confirm that the
many hundreds of women who have lost or who will soon lose jobs following the closure of
Millers' two clothing factories in Christchurch, the impending closure of the Kaiapoi
Woollen Mills, and the closure of Unilever's factory in Christchurch, will not be represented
in the official statistics of the registered unemployed, and when does he intend to carry out
the promised Department of Labour survey to establish how many people are actually
unemployed in New Zealand, in the light of the 1976 census returns, which confirmed that
the actual unemployment figure was already above 20 000 in March 1976?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): Any unemployed person seeking work,
whether male or female, married or single, may register with the Department of Labour.
This has been the case under both Governments, and I can assure the member for Avon that
official unemployment statistics include any married women who have become redundant,
are seeking full-time work, and have enrolled with my department for assistance in obtaining
another job. Last year I indicated that the Government was considering the possibility of a
household labour force survey to measure employment and unemployment. I have convened
a technical working party from members of my own department and the Department of
Statistics, and this working party is at present investigating in detail the feasibility of
undertaking such a survey.
Mrs Batchelor: Would the Minister confirm that many married women, when they lose
work for whatever reason, do not register with his department, and that therefore the actual
unemployment figures would be much higher if they were taken into consideration?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Any such statement must be pure hypothesis and conjecture.
Any married woman who wants to work 30 hours a week or more can apply for a job and be
registered as unemployed. For the week ending 1 July 1977 there were 178 married women
and 248 widowed or divorced women so registered.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Imports-Raw Materials and Manufacturing Components
2. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry:
What proportion of total imports is made up of raw materials and components for
manufacturing industries operating within New Zealand?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Trade and Industry. The end use of some imported raw materials and components can be
inputs for industry or consumer items, and for this reason a precise answer cannot be given.
Table 54 of the Monthly Abstract of Statistics for April 1977 indicates that those categories
listed as raw materials or component imports for industry in the 1976 June year accounted
for 66.6 percent of all imports.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Energy Conservation Policy
3. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Does he
support an energy policy that gives encouragement to the use of energy by way of reduced
tariffs for heating swimming pools, and, if not, what measures does he propose to take that
would more properly reflect conservation and social needs rather than the ability to pay?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Energy Resources. His answer is as follows: "I do not endorse the action of energy
supplying authorities giving reduced tariff rates for such purposes as the heating of swimming
pools. The Electrical Supply Authorities Association is, at my request, examining the
propriety of such rates in the light of the new energy situation. I am to make a formal


## p. 1617 (#73) ############################################

27 July
1617
Oral Answers to Questions
approach to the gas association on this same subject shortly. Until such time as the members
of the associations have had a reasonable opportunity to act appropriately, I will not
speculate whether Government measures will be necessary, or what form they might take.”
Hon. F. M. Colman: As I have been informed that one swimming pool being heated by
electricity has used more than 80 000 units in a 7-month period, could the Minister give
urgency to the proposal that he is taking up with the electricity authorities?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I will put that point to the Minister.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Young Physically Disabled in Geriatric Wards
4. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Health: Is it true, as was stated in the
television programme "Access" on Sunday, 17 July 1977, that it is common practice to place
young physically disabled people, such as those suffering from multiple sclerosis, in geriatric
wards of public hospitals, and, if so, (a) how many of these young people are so accommo-
dated; and (b) does he have any plans to change this situation?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): In certain hospitals when other more appropriate
accommodation is not available, it may be necessary to nurse some severely disabled
younger patients in geriatric wards. The actual numbers so nursed at present are not
available, and could only be obtained by circulating all hospital boards. This would take
some time, and the final result would not be accurate as it would not include those in similar
circumstances in private hospitals. The Department of Health is well aware of the accommo-
dation needs of this group of patients, and has stressed to all hospital boards that they should
survey the needs of this group in their areas and, where necessary, make purpose-built
accommodation available.
Mr Hunt: Does the Minister feel that the comments made on the TV2 programme,
which I am sure all members would agree was a very moving and important one, indicate
that this problem of placing young people suffering from the crippling disease of multiple
sclerosis in wards along with geriatric patients could perhaps be circumvented, even if only
by putting up a curtain to divide the ward?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I did not see the programme. I understand that the "Access"
programme brings emotional and very close-to-the-heart problems to the people, but there is
no opportunity for those under criticism to reply at the time. I agree entirely that what the
honourable member says is very desirable. There are circumstances sometimes, particularly
in the smaller hospitals, where the types of staff and facilities needed for round-the-clock
care for these patients are exactly the same as those that are needed for geriatrics. Often,
although a patient might be moved 100 miles to a more suitable hospital, he would thereby
be taken away from the visiting opportunities by mothers and fathers, brothers and sisters,
friends, and relations, so that a balance has to be taken in each case. I have tried to draw to
the attention of hospital boards—not that they necessarily needed it, but I felt it incumbent
upon me to do so—the desirability of trying to arrange for purpose-built accommodation for
these particular young patients.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Apples-Export Prices
5. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What are the
present prices for export apples compared with prices at this time last year, and is the Apple
and Pear Marketing Board's deficit likely to be reduced this year as a result of increased
export receipts?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): This information was supplied by the
New Zealand Apple and Pear Marketing Board as it is not available within the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries. The prices are indicative only of each market, as each market has
different returns for each apple variety and for each size within the variety. Detailed prices
could be obtained from the board for particular varieties if both the market and the count
size are specified. Last week export apple prices in the United Kingdom / European market
averaged $16.80 a case, compared with an average of $7.75 a case for the same week last
export season. Returns to date this season on that market have averaged $13.60 a case,
compared with $7.80 for the same period last season. Present indications are that the Apple
and Pear Marketing Board's industry reserve account deficit will be extinguished as a result
of this year's successful trading.
Mr Cooper: What was the Apple and Pear Marketing Board's deficit at the start of this
3-Vol. 412


## p. 1618 (#74) ############################################

1618
27 July
Oral Answers to Questions
season, and what is its expected credit at the finish of the export season?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: I do not have the accurate figures for the beginning of the
season, but I am informed by the board that on present indications it is possible that the
industry reserve account deficit at the end of the season will leave it with a credit balance in
the account, which may reach $3 million.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Wellington Hospital Board-Acquisition of Residential Properties
6. Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) asked the Minister of Health: What is the "urgent
priority" under which the Wellington Hospital Board has decided to acquire residential
properties in its area by threatened use of powers under the Public Works Act?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): It is not true that the Wellington Hospital Board
is threatening to use the powers contained in the Public Works Act for acquisition of
property. The case referred to arose as a result of the board not advising the Ministry of
Works and Development that it no longer required the property concerned. The position has
been satisfactorily explained by the board's chief executive in a recent press statement.
Mr O'Brien: As the Minister has seen the claim by the board's chief executive that the
Wellington Hospital Board forgot to say that the land purchase was not being proceeded
with, can he give an undertaking that no other properties have been acquired regardless of
the need or the absence of any real plan by the Wellington Hospital Board, and will he
ensure that in the case referred to the designation for hospital purposes is now uplifted?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I cannot give the last assurance asked for, as it is the responsibility of
the territorial local authority administering the area. The position was that the hospital
board required a site for its proposed limb and orthotic centre. It owned already in Mein
Street Nos. 44 and 46, but to provide the area needed it had to take either No. 42 or No. 48.
It negotiated the purchase of one property, but omitted to inform the Ministry of Works and
Development of this, so the ministry was taking action to acquire the second property
unnecessarily. When this was brought to the board's attention, the public statement was
made-and I believe the member has seen this in the press-and the application by the
ministry was withdrawn.
Mr T. J. Young: Does a hospital board have to seek permission from the Minister
before acquiring properties, whether under the Public Works Act or by any other procedure
such as negotiation by private treaty? I specifically draw his attention to the acquisition by
the hospital board of land in Pilmuir Street, Lower Hutt, where the threat of the Public
Works Act was used but not applied.
Hon. T. F. GILL: I am not absolutely certain of the regulation of the law, but my
understanding is that when a hospital board wants to do some capital development of this
kind it has to seek the approval of the Minister, because the financial expenditure and the
cost have to be authorised, and this would involve authority for the acquisition of land. If the
local authority has zoned the land appropriately and it is required for a purpose of this kind,
then at that stage, having received the Minister's approval to the overall project and his
authority for the expenditure of the money to acquire the land, the hospital board would be
free to take such action as was necessary, either negotiate directly, or, if necessary, in the
case of hospital work, approach the Ministry of Works and Development for authority to
acquire the land under that Act.
Mr O'Brien: Could the Minister explain the extent to which his department vets the
capital works of hospitals, because quite clearly in this case, had I not raised the matter, the
property would have been acquired with the Minister's authority, to serve no purpose
whatever?
Hon. T. F. GILL: The member is speculating a little when he says that if it had not been
for him reading the newspaper or making a comment, the property would have been
acquired. As financial authority had not been issued for the purchase of two properties, they
would not have been acquired. The Department of Health, with, I might add, some
assistance from Treasury and the Auditor-General, closely supervises such expenditures to
make sure they conform with the policy approved by the Government, and also with the
financial powers issued by the Government. At no time was there any danger of two
properties being acquired when only one was needed, because the board would not have had
the money to pay for them.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1619 (#75) ############################################

27 July
1619
Oral Answers to Questions
Mortgagee Sales
7. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister of Justice: How many sales have actually been
effected by the Registrar of the Supreme Court at the request of a mortgagee in each of the
past 4 years, and, during the same years, how many applications for such sales have been
lodged with the registrar?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The number of sales effected, and the
number of applications for such sales lodged with the Supreme Court, during the preceding 4
years ended 31 December are as follows: 1973, 138 applications and 50 sales; 1974, 100
applications and 19 sales; 1975, 230 applications and 54 sales; and 1976, 319 applications and
76 sales.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Coal Deposits, Huntly-Testing of Private Land
8. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: Has any test boring to
prove coal deposits been undertaken on privately owned land in the Huntly area, and, if so,
what steps have been taken to maintain the confidentiality of the results?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Mines. His answer is as follows: "Yes, drilling for coal has been carried out on private
land in the Huntly area. The results of this work are not given to the landowners, but are
kept confidential to officials of the Mines Department and the New Zealand Geological
Survey."
Hon. F. M. Colman: Does the Minister know of any breaches of confidentiality of any
such findings from test boring for coal on privately owned land in the area nominated?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: No, but from my supplementary information I understand
that 13 rigs are operating. Because of the very wide-ranging drilling operations, and the wide
public interest in the field, it is very difficult to guarantee that information does not seep out
into the public arena.
Mr Hunt: Does the Minister have no knowledge whatsoever of any breach of this
confidentiality?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: There is no information of a direct leak, but there is some
possibility that information has leaked. This may have occurred because of the knowledge
gained from the number of people operating in the area. It is impossible to say that a direct
leak has occurred.
Mr Hunt: As the Minister now says there might have been an indirect leak, as opposed
to a direct one, can he indicate what steps he is taking to look into the matter?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I should have indicated that, as a result of this possibility,
security measures have been further tightened.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Overseas Exchange from Visitors
9. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Finance: Can he inform the
House of the total overseas exchange earned by New Zealand from overseas visitors in the
1976-77 period, and how does this compare with the annual overseas exchange earned in
1972-73, 1973-74, and 1974-75?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): Travel receipts recorded by the
Reserve Bank in the statistics of overseas exchange transactions amounted to $162.2 million
in the year ended June 1977. Travel receipts in the three earlier years referred to were as
follows: 1972-73, $65.1 million, 1973-74, $81.3 million; and 1974-75, $110 million. These
figures represent expenditure in New Zealand by overseas visitors on goods, accommoda-
tion, and other services, but do not include the fares paid to Air New Zealand by overseas
visitors travelling to and from New Zealand, which are included in the statisics of transport
earnings, and not available as a separate record.
Mr Talbot: In view of the dramatic increase in overseas exchange earnings from
overseas visitors, could the Minister indicate whether last year's very high levels will be
attained again in the coming year?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: No, one cannot prophesy these figures in advance.
3.


## p. 1620 (#76) ############################################

1620
27 July
Oral Answers to Questions
However, there is every indication that the increase will continue, particularly having regard
to the fact that New Zealand is a much nicer place to visit than it was a year or two ago.
Mr Kirk: As there has been a downturn of about 3000 Australian visitors a month
during the past 3 months, how can the Minister expect an increase for the coming year?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I guess the visitors would be spending more, but the last 3
months really come into the year I have just quoted, and were about 50 percent up on what
happened when there was a Labour Government. The months referred to by the honourable
member come into this June year. We do not have the July figures yet.
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: As during the past 3 months the Australian air traffic controllers
strike held up some 15 000 potential travellers, does the Minister consider this would have
made an impact on the decline in the number of Australians visiting New Zealand?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I am perfectly certain that during the period they could not
get here by air, they did not get here by any other means.
Mr Hunt: Could the Minister give the figures for the year he did not mention-1975-76?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: No, I am sorry, I do not have the figures for that year. I am
sure the June year 1975-76 would not give the honourable member any comfort. Indeed,
most statistics in this area do not give the honourable member much comfort these days.
Mr Kirk: The Minister of Tourism asked the Minister of Finance how the Australian air
traffic controllers strike affected the figures. Could the Minister confirm that there was a
downturn of 3000 Australian visitors in March, before the air strike occurred?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: No, I cannot confirm that. However, I can confirm that the
$162 million travel receipts for the year included the month of March. The figure was very
much higher than that of the previous year, which was half in the period of the National
Government, and half in the period of the Labour Government; and 50 percent higher than
the year before, which was totally in the period of the Labour Government, when, as I
recall, there was no Australian air traffic controllers strike. I think that that 50 percent
increase is a pretty good achievement for the Minister.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Petroleum Exploration Licences, Taranaki
10. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: When were the on-
shore petroleum exploration licences for the Taranaki areas first advertised; in what
countries were they advertised; how many tenders for each licence were received; and have
any licences actually been issued?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Mines. Areas of on-shore Taranaki were advertised in November and December 1975 as
being available for application for petroleum prospecting licences. Advertisements were
placed in five recognised petroleum publications, all having international circulation: the
World Oil Publication in the United States; the Oil and Gas Journal in the United States; and
three U.K. magazines-Petroleum Times, Off-shore, and Petroleum International. No
applications were received in response to this advertising, and consequently no licences were
issued.
Hon. F. M. Colman: In view of the wide interest that was displayed, and the pressure
that was applied to release the licence area in Taranaki, can the Minister say why no such
licences were taken out?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: No, I cannot. That is entirely over to the major petroleum
companies the people who apply. Since the early 1970s there has been a restructuring of
the New Zealand legislation, and of the whole approach to licensing, as the member well
knows. There have been difficulties in securing action because of the terms and conditions
on which successive New Zealand Governments have sought to maintain the interests of this
country in prospective petroleum reserves.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Was the reason that no licences were taken up the Government's
uncertainty about the taxing of any possible discoveries?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I cannot say that that is the reason. The whole question of
working out a petroleum regime is under discussion, as it was under the previous Administ-
ration. We are concerned with energy resource development, and we will work with the
overseas companies. At the same time, we are determined to explore our own resources, and
the Budget has made this clear.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1621 (#77) ############################################

27 July
1621
Oral Answers to Questions
Post Office Operations Subsidy
11. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: To what extent was
the New Zealand taxpayer called upon to subsidise the operations of the Post Office in the
December years 1972 to 1975?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): The Post Office incurred losses totalling
$67.7 million in the 4 years commencing 1 April 1972 to 1 April 1975. Figures are not
available for calendar years. Except for the loss of $2 million in 1972, which was met by
borrowing additional funds, the losses were covered by subsidies from the vote Stabilisation.
Mr Wellington: Apart from an extra burden on the taxpayer, can propping up Post
Office finances with massive subsidy payments have an adverse effect on its administration?
Mr Hunt: A point of order, Mr Speaker. That question clearly asks for a hypothetical
answer about something that has no relevance to or is in elucidation of the answer to the
original question. I have always believed that questions can bring in political points, but they
must in some way be relevant to the original question, and must seek elucidation.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Speaking to the point of order, the question relates to the
extent of subsidy assistance during the years concerned, and I suggest that a question about
the effects of the subsidisation is extremely relevant.
Mr SPEAKER: Like so many questions that honourable members love to ask, this
question is, I believe, out of order. The point is properly taken. The question states, if
finances are propped up in a certain way, would this have an adverse effect on morale. That
is a matter of opinion. The question is also hypothetical: it makes a postulation and asks
what effect would this have on the morale of officials, or something to that effect. The point
having been raised, I must rule it properly raised. The question is out of order.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I respectfully point out to you
that this situation is not a hypothetical one, as was revealed by my answer to the initial
question.
Mr SPEAKER: I have already ruled that the question stating "If finances are propped
up" in a certain way is a hypothetical question. There the matter must rest.
Mr Rogers: Can the Postmaster-General confirm that Post Office charges in those 3
years were frozen by the Labour Government, which kept its promises; and can he also
confirm that the doubling of the charges for postal services will quite unnecessarily boost
Post Office earnings by more than $160 million at the public's expense?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I deem the second part of that question to be completely
irrelevant. With respect to the first part, I can confirm that charges were frozen under the
Labour Government, at a cost of $66 million to the taxpayer and a distortion of postal
services.
Mr SPEAKER: We are in danger of this getting out of hand with narrative-type
questions.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is the fact that the New Zealand taxpayer had to subsidise the
operations of the Post Office in the December years 1972 to 1975 the reason there were so
many delays when this Government came into office in 1975, and has that contributed to the
continuing delays which are now being rectified by the Postmaster-General?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: That is correct. During the period of the massive subsidies, the
demand for telephone services went up, and it was actually cheaper for an Australian
business house to send letters to this country to be reposted back to Australia. That is a
classic example of the distortions that can occur when there are massive subsidies of the sort
we had under Labour.
Hon. F. M. Colman: To what extent was the additional $101 million taken from the
customers of the Post Office over and above what was necessary to balance the books of the
Post Office for that year?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: That question goes well beyond the scope of the original
question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hansard-Delay in Publication
12. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister in Charge of the Government
Printing Office: What is the present time gap between proceedings in the House and the


## p. 1622 (#78) ############################################

1622
27 July
Oral Answers to Questions
publication of Hansard, how has this time altered in the last 5 years, and is there any
possibility that the Hansard record can be published more quickly?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister in Charge of the Government Printing Office): The
present time gap between proceedings in the House and the publication of Hansard is 6 to 7
weeks. This is 1 to 2 weeks longer than the average time for the years 1972 to 1975. In 1976
Hansard was produced for the first time by computerised typesetting equipment and,
because of problems with the new system, the publication of Hansard became progressively
delayed until, by the end of the session, it was 3 months late. This year Hansard has been
redesigned to facilitate a quicker turnround, and the Government Printer is aiming at a 3-
week to 4-week time gap.
Mr Hunt: In view of the fact that in the Australian House of Representatives a printed
edition of Hansard comes out on the day after a debate, would the Minister not think that an
increase in the delay of 2 weeks over 2 years, whether or not a computer is involved, is a
cause of concern, when, in fact, we should be reducing the delay of 6 to 7 weeks down to
about 6 to 7 days?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: The computerised system was ordered by the previous Labour
Government. It has caused quite considerable upset, and is now being overhauled by
engineers from the United Kingdom. It is now expected that the 3-week to 4-week
production target will be met, once the backlog is overtaken. A more expeditious printing of
the Journals of the House would be a matter for some further representation to the
Government.
Mr Latter: If experience shows that the computer, instead of speeding up the printing,
in fact slows it down, makes it more difficult for the Hansard staff, and does away with the
well proven methods of colour coding, and so on, will the Minister consider selling the thing
at a profit and returning to the use of proven methods?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: That will certainly be considered if it is proven to be
inefficient.
Mr Kirk: Can the Minister confirm that the delays have been caused because the work
that used to be contracted out by the Government Printer is no longer allowed to be
contracted out under the National Government, and also by a restriction placed on overtime
by Government Printer staff?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: That has no foundation in fact whatsoever. A considerable
amount of work is still contracted out to private firms.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Truancy
13. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What representa-
tions has he received about the growing incidence of truancy, and what steps has he
authorised to deal with that trend?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I have received representations from
some education boards and secondary school boards concerning truancy, which has been
present in New Zealand schools in some form for very many years. My department, in
association with other departments and primary, intermediate, and secondary school princi-
pals, has been actively concerned with the issue of truancy for more than a year. As a result
of inquiries and pilot studies, it now has in draft form a circular which will soon be released
to all principals of schools. The causes of truancy are complex, and the measures to be taken
to reduce it will require carefully co-ordinated activity by the schools and outside supportive
agencies. As well as the circular, which will give guidance to principals, the following
initiatives are being taken: a national survey on absenteeism; reviews of the teaching
programmes for pupils at risk for truancy and of the procedures used to check attendances
and follow unexplained absences; and a review of liaison with parents and with other
agencies that have responsibilities in this matter.
Mr Kirk: Can the Minister confirm that, because of the repressive economic conditions
at present, many wives are now forced to work, and that that is a factor in promoting
truancy?
Mr Wellington: A point of order, Mr Speaker. When I asked a supplementary question
on question 11 you ruled it out of order because of excessive political overtones. I suggest
that the question just asked by the member for Sydenham is in precisely the same bracket.
Mr Kirk: Speaking to the point of order, it is a fact that many wives are now forced to
work, and it is also a fact that the children are therefore left unattended when they return


## p. 1623 (#79) ############################################

27 July
1623
Qral Answers to Questions
home from school. That could be construed as a factor encouraging truancy.
Mr Hunt: Speaking to the point of order, I support what the member for Sydenham has
said and the question he asked. It is a fact that a survey carried out recently in the west of
Auckland showed that more than 75 percent of all juvenile crime there was committed
between 4 p.m. and 5.30 p.m., when. the mothers were not home from work and the
children, after returning home, had gone out again. Therefore, I consider that the
supplementary question asked by the member for Sydenham is very relevant to the question.
Mr Elliott: Speaking to the point of order, briefly, I point out that anything that happens
between 4 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. has nothing to do with truancy.
Mr SPEAKER: The point having been raised, it seems to me that the supplementary
question carried the matter too far. In the original question the Minister was asked what
representations he had received about the growing incidence of truancy, and what steps he
had authorised to deal with it. I think the question of employment is remote. Because so
many questions are asked in a loose way, many go through, but when a point is taken I must
rule them out of order. The supplementary question asked was remote from the original
question and certainly not in elucidation of the answer given Therefore I rule it out of order.
Mr Rogers: Have any extra staff been employed to police truancy in schools
immediately?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I am not aware of the actual number of visiting officers
appointed over the years, but 15 more were appointed last year.
Mr Marshall: In his original answer the Minister referred to consultation with other
departments. Arising out of research carried out is the Minister, or his department, able to
make representations to other Ministers giving recommendations that may help to alleviate
the basic social problems?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Yes. One of the actions proposed is to have close liaison and
discussions with the Department of Social Welfare, the Department of Health, the New
Zealand Police, and the Maori Affairs Department with a view to developing more effective
and co-ordinated approaches to working with families and children at risk.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Coal Imports from Australia
14. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Minister of Electricity: In view of the
statement in the National Party's full election policy that it recognises New Zealand's
increasing dependence on coal and its promise to encourage the coal industry, why does he
permit his department to consider the possibility of coal imports from Australia to fuel New
Zealand power stations when they could be fuelled from New Zealand's already proven coal
reserves?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Electricity, and hope I can put the mind of the member for West Coast at rest. Because of
the importance of energy to a modern economy and the alarming forecasts for future
supplies, the New Zealand Electricity Department has been investigating the possibility of
electricity generation using imported Australian coal as one of a number of options open to
this country in the longer term—that is, 15 years away. Australian coal has not been seen as
an alternative to any local coal which could be made available. Indeed, as the Budget
indicated, the Government is accelerating investigation of local coal resources, but the use of
Australian coal is seen as a possible means of deferring a nuclear power programme should
local supplies run short in future. In short, the study being undertaken has arisen out of
questions asked before the Royal Commission on Nuclear Power, and is designed very much
for the longer term.
Mr Blanchfield: Can the Minister give an assurance that one of the reasons the
Government is so desirous of getting more coal into New Zealand is the fact that coal is the
cheapest of the three fuels at 34c per therm, compared with 62c for oil and 64c for electricity?
Does the department want more coal brought in to even out the cost of electricity?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I should make it clear to the House that the investigation has
not arisen from any wish of the department but out of questions raised before the Royal
Commission on Nuclear Power, where it has been suggested that in the longer term supplies
of fuels necessary for power stations may not be available in this country. I hope that the
investigations into New Zealand's coal reserves will cover that point adequately in the
future.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1624 (#80) ############################################

1624
27 July
Oral Answers to Questions
Maruia Declaration Petition
15. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Member for Hamilton East: Is he
convinced that all the signatories of the Maruia Declaration petition were well informed of
its implications and effects, that there is no duplication of signatures, and that people have
not signed to save being pestered by petition signature seekers, and, should such be the case,
what value does he place on the size of the petition?
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East): It would be a formidable, if not impossible, task to
ensure that no duplication exists, but from the examination I have made I am satisfied that if
duplication exists at all it would have only a minor effect on the total number of signatures
collected. However, I can assure the member for West Coast that I believe that those who
signed the Maruia Declaration petition were better informed of its implications and effects
than were those who signed the former record holding petition on nuclear power. Further-
more, at least from a personal knowledge of the situation in my own electorate of Hamilton
East, I can assure the member for West Coast that signatures were not obtained by pestering
people. Finally, as far as the value of this, New Zealand's largest ever petition, is concerned
it (a) reflects widespread and general public concern for the conservation of native forests
such as those at Okarito, and (b) because the petitioners saw fit to ask a Government back-
bencher to present it, it suggests that the Government's actions to date have met with a
measure of approval.
Mr Blanchfield: Does the member know that a bloke called Robert Muldoon signed the
petition six times?
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: How is that for depreciation!
Mr Blanchfield: And if he did, were those signatures allowed? In the magazine
Beechlands, the vehicle for the petition he presented, did the member read the remarks of a
signature-gatherer who went from door to door admitting she had been recommended to
"try the patter recommended at the National Forest Action council base", and that many of
the signatories said, "Oh, yes, I shall sign; I have been reading about Okarito in the
papers"? They had heard about that kiwi that was supposed to be run over.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member can ask funny questions, but he cannot make funny
speeches at this time.
Dr SHEARER: Yes, I am aware that Mr R. D. Muldoon signed the petition six times,
and all six signatures were deleted. I am also aware that three signatures of a Japanese
nature were also deleted although it was established that three Japanese visitors to New
Zealand had appreciated the importance of the petition and signed it. I think the final part of
the honourable gentleman's supplementary question related to whether the signatories were
well informed. I would suggest that the Campaign Half Million's 120-word explanation on
that petition was well out-done by the Maruia Declaration's 680-word explanation.
Mr Kirk: Can the member confirm that the Royal Forest and Bird Society would not
associate itself with the petition, and that Professor John Morton, a top conservationist,
wrote, "I saw the methods of selective logging in South Westland, and I spoke subsequently
in a report rather kindly of them."?
Dr SHEARER: I cannot confirm that the Royal Forest and Bird Society did not support
the petition because, in the Waikato and in Hamilton alone, it campaigned actively for the
Maruia Declaration at the Winter Show this year. If the member for Sydenham had read the
Maruia Declaration, he would have seen that it specifically referred to milling, selective
logging, etc., on the West Coast.
Mr Blanchfield: Would the member agree that on a page of signatures gathered on the
West Coast 11' percent lived in Canterbury and 42 percent in the North Island, while 4½
percent were Australian tourists-
An Hon. Member: So what?
Mr Blanchfield: And yet this mug says "so what?"
Mr SPEAKER: We are wasting a great deal of time today.
Mr Schultz: In his review of signatories to the Maruia Declaration, did the member for
Hamilton East find instances of 40 names on the one sheet, all in the same handwriting, or
signatures accompanied by objectionable language, as was found in the petition from the
Eden Labour Party?
Dr SHEARER: In the study I have done to this point, and bearing in mind that the
petition contained 340 000-odd signatures, I have found no blatant illustrations of the type
mentioned by the member for Coromandel. The deletions I have determined have been in


## p. 1625 (#81) ############################################

27 July
1625
Oral Answers to Questions
the area of the obvious use of young people's signatures. These have been deleted in the
interests of authenticity.
Mr Rogers: Does the member know that Dr Molloy, President of the Federated
Mountain Clubs, representing 14 000 trampers, mountaineers, and deerstalkers said, “Obvi-
ously, the present Westland National Park caters admirably for the active mountaineer and
members."?
Dr SHEARER: I fail to see what that supplementary question has to do with the original
question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw
your attention to Standing Order 76, which states, “Questions may be put to a member (not
being a Minister) relating to any Bill, motion, or public matter connected with the business
of the House, of which the member has charge." I am concerned that questions such as we
had today may lead to a practice whereby a member who presents a petition of any sort to
the House may be asked questions about it. I suggest that the House, and not the member,
now has charge of this petition. The member merely presented it to the House, and at that
point it would be in the charge of the House or of the Petitions Committee. Should the
member who has presented a petition to the House be subject to questioning of this sort? I
am not suggesting that the procedure could be used for other than good purpose, but it
seems to me that, as has happened this afternoon, we could virtually have a mini-debate on
the substance of the petition and a cross-examination of a person who was not necessarily a
witness or could not give expert evidence about the matter under consideration.
Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei): It concerns me that a person who presents a petition with
which he does not necessarily agree may be placed in a position where he is asked to debate
it during a series of questions in the House.
Mr SPEAKER: I think there is merit in the points advanced by the Minister and that
there is a danger of using a lot of time on matters affecting petitions of which members can
have little knowledge and over which they can have little control. Nevertheless, we are
confronted with two Standing Orders, the first being Standing Order 76 which states,
"Questions may be put to a member (not being a Minister) relating to any Bill, motion, or
public matter connected with the business of the House, of which the member has charge."
A member must be deemed to have charge of the matter up to the point when the petition is
presented. That seems implied by Standing Order 407 which states, "Every member
presenting a petition shall take care that the same is in conformity with the Standing Orders
of the House." That throws a measure of responsibility on the members. But the points
raised are valid and, if we have petitions containing 10 000, 20 000, or 40 000 signatures, no
member can be expected to check each one and have detailed knowledge of the matter. The
House has been in rather a fun-and-games mood this afternoon. I hope we shall not have too
much raising of technicalities about a petition in this way in future.
WANGANUI COMPUTER CENTRE ACT COMMENCEMENT ORDER
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I am directed by the Statutes Revision Committee to present
the report of the committee on the Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement
Order being a regulation within the meaning of and passed pursuant to the Regulations
Act 1936. The committee recommends that there is no matter on which the special attention
of the House should be drawn to the regulation. I move, That the report do lie upon the table.
The committee's report is lengthy and complex. It is not my intention to read it to the
House, but I shall table it in written form for perusal by those who might be interested—
particularly in any precedent it might establish. Instead, I intend to give a brief summary of
the committee's findings, and to make some comments of my own. I emphasise that,
contrary to my normal practice in delivering committee reports, the remarks I shall make on
this occasion will be very largely my own summary of the overall situation that has occurred
since this matter first came before the select committee on 20 April this year.
The Wanganui Computer Centre Act was passed by the House on 1 September 1976,
and was assented to on 9 September. Section 1(2) of the Act provided that it should come
into force on a date set by Order in Council. Such an order, the Wanganui Computer Centre
Commencement Order 1977, was promulgated on 10 February 1977, bringing the Act into
force on 17 February. Acting under Standing Order 379, five members of the Labour
Opposition referred the commencement order to the Statutes Revision Committee for
consideration pursuant to Standing Order 378. The complaints made by the Labour


## p. 1626 (#82) ############################################

1626
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
members could be summarised in this way and in the alternative: first, that the Act was
brought into force too early, or, second, that the Act was brought into force too late.
In considering the written report it will be useful for the House to know something of
the history of the Wanganui Computer Centre. On 23 April 1974 the Labour Government
Cabinet committee on State Services approved a tender for the design, development, and
implementation of the Wanganui computer system, to be developed over 38 months. On 7
November 1974 the then Minister of State Services, the member for Otahuhu, gave an
undertaking in this House that no contract would be let for the Wanganui Computer Centre
until such time as appropriate privacy protection legislation had been introduced to the
House. That undertaking is to be found in Hansard, Volume 395, at page 5692. The Bill was
introduced in July 1975, but 9 months earlier-in fact on 15 November 1974, only 8 days
after giving his undertaking in the House-the member for Otahuhu authorised the signing
of a "Heads of Agreement", as it was called, by the State Services Commission on the one
hand and the contractors on the other. This document recognised the intention of the two
parties to enter into a binding contract, the form of which was actually attached to the signed
Heads of Agreement.
The Heads of Agreement provided that a contract be signed no later than 31 August
1975, prescribing penalties if this did not eventuate. In the meantime, acting pursuant to the
signed Heads of Agreement, the development of the Wanganui Computer Centre system
proceeded. The actual contract was signed on 27 August 1975. The important point to note is
that there is absolutely no difference, in legal effect, between the Heads of Agreement that
was signed 9 months before the Bill was introduced into the House and the actual contract,
which the member had told the House would not be signed until the Bill was introduced. The
contract itself laid down a programme which had to be followed by the State Services
Commission and the contractors for the establishment of the Wanganui Computer Centre.
The essential dates were: 31 August 1975, by which date the central equipment had to be
installed; 15 July 1976, by which date some information had to be fed into the computer; 15
November 1976, by which date certain further information had to be fed into the computer;
and 15 March 1977, by which date all the remaining information had to be fed into the
computer.
So it will be seen that the programme for establishing the Wanganui Computer Centre
was laid down almost entirely by the previous Labour Government. It was originally
intended that the Act would be brought into force on 1 April 1977. During the debate on the
second reading of the Wanganui Computer Centre Bill the present Minister of State Services
stated that the system would not be operated—that is, information would not be drawn off
the computer-until the Bill had been passed. I emphasise that he said nothing about the
Act being brought into force. That is important, because the date on which it would be
appropriate to bring the Act into force would depend on a number of things, particularly
whether it was possible for the various privacy safeguards contained in the Act to be brought
into operation.
For instance, under the Act the Wanganui Computer Centre Privacy Commissioner is
obliged to supply to any person who asks for it a print-out of the information on that
individual held in the computer system. As members will know, the procedure to be
followed in such circumstances is very complicated. Among other things it is very important
that the commissioner gives information only to the person who is entitled to it. In the report
which was tabled in the House today, the commissioner records that these procedures are
still being worked out in consultation with the Post Office and the departments using the
computer system that is still, now, in July 1977, in trial form. No information has yet been
sent to any applicant.
What we have is a programme laid down by the previous Labour Government that
called for a substantial amount of information to be stored in the computer and capable of
being drawn off from the computer by November of last year, approximately 4 months
before it was intended that the Act should be brought into force, and at the same time we
had the situation where the privacy safeguards could not be brought into force until some
later date. Faced with that situation the Government advanced the date for the commence-
ment of the Act from 1 April to 17 February. For that it is to be commended. At all times it
was necessary for those responsible for selecting the commencement date to weigh several
factors: the fact that information was capable of being drawn off the computer on the one
hand, and the fact that the privacy safeguards had to be fully operational on the other. In the
end, even those who argued at the committee that the Act was brought into force on the
wrong date were unable to suggest any other date, either earlier or later, that might have


## p. 1627 (#83) ############################################

27 July
1627
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
been more appropriate. The Wanganui Computer Centre Commencement Order does
nothing more than bring the Act into force, and, therefore, that was the sole issue with which
the committee had to content itself.
I turn now to Standing Order 378 and to the three possible grounds on which the
committee could have made an adverse report on the regulation. I emphasise that the
committee was quite satisfied that this was a regulation within the meaning of the Regula-
tions Act 1936. The first possibility was that the order might have trespassed unduly on
personal rights and liberties. We concluded that the order did not trespass on personal rights
and liberties. What it does is to bring the Act into force earlier and thereby furnish the
privacy safeguards which were not previously in existence. Not one member of the Statutes
Revision Committee was able to suggest a better date for bringing the Act into force-and
that includes the member for New Lynn, who is trying to interject.
The second possibility was that the making of the order might have been an unusual or
unexpected use of the powers conferred by the Act; but the Act states that it will be brought
into force by a commencement order and so one could hardly argue that the passing of a
commencement order was an unusual or unexpected use of the powers contained in the
statute. The third possible ground for review of the regulation was that its form or purport
called for elucidation. The order is simplicity itself and certainly does not require any
elucidation. So the committee has concluded that there are no grounds on which it needs to
look at the order and no recommendation to the House is needed. Even if there had been
some irregularity we were not in a position to deal with the matter retrospectively, and it is
almost certain that we would have exercised the discretion contained in Standing Order 378
and made a not unfavourable report to the House.
Finally, I shall comment generally on the circumstances in which this matter came
before the House. I said on a previous occasion that the power contained in Standing Order
378 should be used sparingly. I do not think this was an appropriate regulation to have
before the select committee in the first place. I am certain that Labour members regretted
having brought it before the committee because we discovered in the process that the
Government had advanced the date of the commencement of the Act and that, of course,
meant that the statutory protections contained in the Act were available earlier. We also
discovered that the member for Otahuhu, having given an undertaking that the contract
would not be signed until the Bill had been introduced, in fact authorised this somewhat
amazing Heads of Agreement that was a document legally binding on all parties. In all the
circumstances I think this must have been a considerable embarrassment to the Labour
members of the select committee. I am sure this experience alone will discourage them from
bringing matters such as this before the select committee in future.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I rise to speak to the report of the Statutes Revision
Committee not only as a member of the committee, but also as the person who initiated the
inquiry. I requested the Statutes Revision Committee to look into the regulation pursuant to
the Wanganui Computer Centre Act because of the unconfirmed but very serious allegations
of unauthorised access to the centre. The House had been assured that it was impossible for
an unauthorised person to obtain the highly confidential and potentially dangerous informa-
tion stored in the computer, so the allegations of leaks led me to conclude that the Wanganui
Computer Centre Act and its regulations were either defective or not being followed. In
either case, it appeared that the centre was violating the rights of citizens, and for that reason
I requested that the Statutes Revision Committee look at the matter.
The committee had to look at the Act; and it is worth recalling that the Labour
Government introduced this Act to give protection to the rights of individuals because the
information stored in the computer is potentially extremely dangerous. A person can now
apply to the centre for a print-out of the information held about him to make sure it is
correct. It was clearly understood by the committee that the computer had to be loaded
before the Act came into force, but it was also clearly understood that the computer would
not be used until the safeguards to which Parliament determined citizens were entitled were
operating.
I quote a statement made by the Minister of State Services on 28 July 1976: "Both the
Labour Government and the National Party in its manifesto gave implicit undertakings that
this Bill would be passed before the centre came into operation." In its manifesto the
National Party also said: "The National Party will ensure absolute protection for the privacy
of all records of individuals at the Wanganui Computer Centre. It will also ensure the right of
all individuals to know what information about them is recorded at the centre." It is very
clear from the Minister's remarks that the safeguards contained in the Wanganui Computer


## p. 1628 (#84) ############################################

1628
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
Centre Act meant that information on the computer would be available before the computer
was used by Government departments. That is the undertaking on which Parliament passed
the Bill.
Mr McLay: Are you quoting correctly?
Mr PREBBLE: I have quoted the Minister absolutely correctly.
Mr McLay: You said "passed".
Mr PREBBLE: That's right. Evidence was called, and a number of facts were able to be
determined. The first was that the Minister made that undertaking. The second was that the
computer was loaded before the Act came into force, which was accepted by the committee.
The third fact—and one that I believe calls for the Minister's resignation was that before
the Act became law the computer was being used by Government departments to obtain
information about individuals who, at that time, had no legal avenue for requesting a print-
out of the information. The information being used by Government departments included
records of inmates, stolen property, vehicles of interest, wanted persons, missing persons,
the driving licence register, and the motor vehicle register. The decision to start using the
computer before the Act came into force was a ministerial one and not one made by the
State Services Commission-but the committee could not determine whether it was a
Cabinet decision.
The fourth fact was that in January last an employee of the centre gained wrongful
access to the computer. The committee was not able to find out much about that incident
because it was being investigated by the Privacy Commissioner. However, it was able to
determine that, even if the employee had violated the provisions of the Wanganui Computer
Centre Act, he could not have been prosecuted because at that time the Act had not been
brought into force. The next fact was that the computer was provisionally scheduled to come
into operation on 1 April this year. The reason for the delay was that the safeguards
provided for citizens were not expected to be in operation until that date. It appears that,
because of the incident in January, a decision was made to bring forward the commencement
date of the Act to 17 February. The effect of that decision was that from 17 February
Government departments authorised to use the computer were given a green light to obtain
information about individuals, but those individuals could not check whether the informa-
tion being used by the Police Department, the Ministry of Transport, and the Department of
Justice was accurate. Citizens still cannot get that print-out, and the chairman of the
committee has said we cannot think of a date.
In my view no Government department should be able to use one skerrick of
information from that computer until the individual concerned can get a print-out. That was
the intention of Parliament last year. I believe that the Minister of State Services, who gave
this undertaking, should resign, and I also believe that the Minister of Justice, the Minister
of Police, and the Minister of Transport should join him, because this gang of four has
allowed the computer centre to come into operation before the safeguards that Parliament
wanted were in force.
Mr Fenton: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The member for Auckland Central has
referred to four Ministers as "this gang of four", and I believe that is unparliamentary.
Mr PREBBLE: I withdraw it.
Mr SPEAKER: That solves the matter without my having to consider it.
Mr PREBBLE: This is the second regulation that has been looked at by the Statutes
Revision Committee, and it is the second regulation that has been found to be defective. I
believe a committee should be set up to look into regulations. The House of Commons has
such a committee, and New Zealand desperately needs one because, as Professor Palmer has
pointed out, we are being increasingly governed by regulation. If the regulations are not
what the House expected, then the country is being governed in a manner that is neither
parliamentary nor democratic. A regulations committee should be set up, and all regulations
should be referred to it before they are implemented. The committee could then examine
them to see whether they go too far and whether they follow the legislation, and to ensure
that people are not being unduly regulated. Many of the regulations in force at present are
probably unnecessary, go too far, and, in some cases, transgress the rights and liberties of
individuals.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti): It has been interesting to observe the varying opinions held on this
matter by the member for Auckland Central. When he placed the matter before the Statutes
Revision Committee it was his allegation that the Act had been brought into force too early.
I quote from his letter to the committee: "It is submitted that for the Act to come into force
prematurely would be to create an instrument which could endanger personal rights and


## p. 1629 (#85) ############################################

27 July
1629
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
liberties of citizens." In the last few moments he has said that the Act should have been
brought into force before the computer was used.
The implementation programme for the computer was laid down by the Labour
Government, but the member for Auckland Central now says the Act should have been
brought into force before that was done. So in the first instance he said it was too early, but
now he says it was too late. I should like to ask him a simple question. He does not agree
with the 17 February date, but will he, or one of his colleagues, tell the House what date the
Act should have been brought into force? The member does not like the date that the
Government chose, and he does not want it to be earlier or later.
Mr Prebble: What about the safeguards?
Mr BRILL: The member does not make any suggestion about when the Act should have
been brought into force. As to the safeguards being put into effect, we have been misled on
that point. I shall return to it shortly. The Heads of Agreement, as was pointed out by my
colleague the member for Birkenhead, laid down the programme in 1974. A few days earlier
it had been said that no contract would be signed until legislation was introduced, and a few
days later a contract was signed, but it was called an agreement, not a contract. It is
somewhat ironic that the member for Auckland Central has called for the resignation of the
Minister of State Services. The Minister made a perfectly accurate statement, and the
undertaking has been observed to the letter. In 1974 the Deputy Leader of the Opposition
said he would not sign a contract, so he signed an agreement instead.
I shall now turn to the history of the affair. When the Heads of Agreement was signed it
established the programme that has been carried out. By August 1975 all the security
arrangements for the centre had been finalised. The design specifications for the actual
computer were completed, the contract documents were ready for signature by 15 August
1975, and the final contract was signed on 27 August 1975. On all of those dates the Labour
Government was in power and responsible for the documentation. The entire programme
had been committed and finalised on 27 August 1975 by the former Minister of State
Services, the member for Roskill. The Bill was introduced by the member for Roskill in July
1975 and referred to the Statutes Revision Committee for study-where it remained from
July 1975, through the election, and into the following year. The committee, which is
bipartisan, made no amendment to the provision for the Act's coming into force; the Labour
members of the committee raised no argument for any amendment to that provision. Up to
that point, the Labour Government had been primarily responsible for the planning, and it
was responsible for the programme that has since been effected.
When the Bill was brought back into the House it was passed without dissent; and I shall
make reference to the comments on the deliberations of the select committee and on the Act
by the member for Roskill, the Labour spokesman on State services. I am bound to say that I
would be more interested to hear what the member for Roskill has to say than I am to hear
from the member for Auckland Central. I quote from Hansard, Volume 404, at page 1106,
where the member for Roskill stated: "That exercise, which took about 6 months, resulted in
a Bill of which we can be proud, and which I think will be recognised around the world as
being a model in this field." I agree with the member for Roskill; it is good legislation. No
doubt some aspects of it will require revision, because it is in a new and novel field.
Nevertheless that was the Labour Party's attitude throughout, until the member for
Auckland Central was struck by a brainstorm and put the matter before the Statutes
Revision Committee-and I agree with my colleague that that has been a matter of some
regret since.
I now come back to the fact that the programme was laid down in 1974, and has been
adhered to. The member for Auckland Central has suggested that an undertaking given by
the Minister has not been observed. On being jogged, the member for Auckland Central was
prepared to quote the Minister accurately as having said that the computer would not come
into operation or be used until the Act was passed.
Mr Prebble: That would be meaningless.
Mr BRILL: The member for Auckland Central's interjection demonstrates precisely the
misapprehension he is suffering under. For someone who has the rudiments of legal
knowledge it is surprising that he is not aware of the contents of section 12 of the Acts
Interpretation Act 1924. There is a considerable difference between an Act being passed and
an Act being brought into effect, but there is no difference between an agreement and a
contract. The argument for resignation might well have been made about the statement by
the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that he would not sign a contract; but then he signed an
agreement. The Minister of Labour said that the computer would not be operated until the


## p. 1630 (#86) ############################################

1630
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
Act was passed, and the computer was not operated until the Act was passed.
Section 12 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1924 reads: "Where an Act that is not to come
into operation immediately on the passing thereof confers power to make any appointment,
to make or issue any instrument . . . to give notices, to prescribe forms, or do anything for
the purposes of the Act, that power may, unless the contrary intention appears, be exercised
at any time after the passing of the Act, so far as may be necessary or expedient for the
purpose of bringing the Act into operation at the date of the commencement thereof." The
date that the Act was passed is a significant date. It allowed the Minister to proceed with the
appointment of the Privacy Commissioner and the policy committee. It allowed the Minister
to pass regulations to approve proclamations and orders. It allowed him to do everything
necessary for the Act to come into force. That is precisely why the Minister of Labour said he
would not use the computer until the Act was passed.
The member for Auckland Central thinks that nothing happens when an Act is passed,
and unless the Act is brought into force it has no effect whatever. The Minister gave an
undertaking that he would not allow the computer to be used until the Act was passed, and
the reason he made that observation is quite clear on reading section 12 of the Acts
Interpretation Act. He carried out that undertaking to the letter. It has not been suggested
by the member for Auckland Central that the Minister did not observe that undertaking to
the letter, but now, on that basis, the member wishes the resignation of several Ministers.
Another point that the member for Auckland Central made, and continues to make, is
that it is not possible for a person to obtain a print-out of the information stored about him in
the computer. That is incorrect. It is possible to obtain a print-out of all information in the
computer about any individual. It was possible to do that on 17 February 1977, the date the
Act was brought into force. It is possible to obtain that information today. No matter what
recollection the member for Auckland Central may have about the oral evidence given
before the committee, I have a note that oral evidence was given along the lines that a print-
out could be obtained at any time. As to written evidence, I refer the member for Auckland
Central to a letter to the Statutes Revision Committee from the State Services Commission,
dated 11 July 1977 and giving further information to satisfy the queries of the member for
Auckland Central. Paragraph 4 of the letter reads:, "Although the privacy commissioner
could have sought the details from such information as was loaded on to the system as at 17
February, and consequently he could have made a partial response to an application lodged
in terms of section 14 of the Act, he had not settled, at that date, the procedures to be
followed in making an application for and receiving information in terms of section 14." The
letter continues that he had to have his stationery printed. That may well be the case.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): I shall not comment at any length on the speeches of
the member for Birkenhead and the member for Kapiti, except to say that it is a great pity
that, despite the fact that both sides of the House are in general agreement about the use of
the computer and the need to protect the privacy of the individual, we seem to blame one
another for it. From my knowledge of members on both sides of the House who are or have
been Ministers of the Crown, not one of them in his quiet moments would disagree with the
idea of having a regulations select committee. Such a committee would be a useful addition,
because we must face the fact that without regulations it would be almost impossible to
govern the country. It would mean a great deal of work, but in controversial areas,
particularly areas affecting the welfare and freedom of the individual, such a committee
would be a useful addition to Parliament, and the member for Auckland Central should be
commended.
Hon. David Thomson: Norman Kirk would have called it paralysis by analysis.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Would he indeed?
Hon. David Thomson: Yes, he would have.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Well, I do not have him here to check that, but I shall accept
the Minister's word that he may have said it. However, that does not necessarily mean that it
is correct. Parliament has considered regulations to be important, to the point that they are
written into the Standing Orders. Parliament has approved the Standing Orders, so it must
feel that regulations are a serious matter; and I believe they will become increasingly
important. When I was a Minister I would have appreciated hearing another view, particu-
larly from the legal luminaries of this establishment who were not in the Cabinet. I would
have appreciated the views of the member for Hamilton West. They would have been a
useful addition to our knowledge, and to the understanding of what we were doing to people
who have no voice other than our voice in Parliament. I was surprised at the member for
Kapiti. I rather admire his debating style, but I was surprised that he commented on the


## p. 1631 (#87) ############################################

27 July
1631
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
honours degree in law that has been awarded to the member for Auckland Central. That
seemed to do nothing for the brotherhood, nothing for Parliament, and not too much for the
member for Kapiti.
The history of the computer centre project is interesting. It was initiated in 1967 when
National was the Government. A long and detailed study was made, and in February 1972,
under the National Government, a report was made to the Cabinet committee on State
services. In March of the same year, under the same Minister, the committee gave approval
to the State Services Commission to invite computer companies to submit proposals for the
development, design, and implementation of an integrated system for law enforcement
agencies. We were not opposed to it. A working party was set up, it drew up specifications,
and issued them to interested parties in July 1972. A constraint was placed on the issue of
specification documents; and then the Government changed in November of that year. In
December 1972 the new Government approved the continuation of the construction of the
building at Wanganui, which was being built under an agreement, or contract—I shall not
argue about those two words; I could not care less-entered into by the National Govern-
ment. However, we asked for a further study of the proposed system; the Government was
concerned to ensure that before the centre became operational there would be adequate
safeguards against the violation of personal freedom and privacy.
To allow time for an adequate study of the privacy question, the development of the
system and the acquisition of equipment was split into two stages. This is where we get to the
business about the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who was then Minister of State
Services, signing the Heads of Agreement. There is nothing wrong with that. We were
introducing the Bill, it had been approved in principle by both sides of the House, and in the
normal course of events the then Minister of State Services went ahead with getting the
equipment ready. I gave the same undertaking as did the Minister of Labour, and I think
the undertaking is fair enough. In January 1973 the Cabinet approved the commission's
negotiating and entering into a contract for a systems design study as a first step. The Deputy
Leader of the Opposition, who was then Minister of State Services, carried out a Cabinet
decision that he quite justifiably believed enjoyed the support of both sides of the House.
During 1973 a Government caucus committee, chaired by the member for St. Albans,
investigated the privacy issue as affected by the computer, and prepared a report that,
incidentally, has received a great deal of support all over the place. In October 1973 the main
computer companies were invited to submit new proposals, and so it went on. Preliminary
work for a draft Bill relating specifically to the Wanganui Computer Centre was completed
in 1974, and at the end of the year the Minister of State Services-it was I at that
time-announced that a special Government committee had been set up to consider
submissions and prepare a final draft for the legislation. That is exactly what we did. We
introduced the Bill into the House, as other members have reported. There was another
change of Government, and the Bill went on-substantially unchanged except for one item
in the schedule that we argued about at the time-to the select committee during the period
between the 1975 and 1976 sessions of Parliament.
There really was no great disagreement between us, except for one item in the schedule
that I still have some reservations about. We argued the toss, and heard the evidence. I am
very proud of the way in which that Bill was drawn up. We brought in all interested parties.
Anyone could come-17 groups came to that caucus committee, and we sat down and
drafted a Bill that we thought not only helped the law enforcement agencies, but also
protected the right of the individual to have information about him made available only to
those entitled to have it. That is what was drawn up and signed, and both parties endorsed it
in their 1975 manifestoes. The idea that everything bad is done by one side or the other is
just nonsense. There was substantial agreement. Nobody is particularly blamed for the
legislation. The Labour Party's attitude was clear; the present Minister's attitude was clear.
The computers were not to roll until the legislation was in operation. That did not happen,
and it is a serious matter worthy of debate in the House. It confirms and endorses the need
for a committee to have surveillance over the regulations. Such a committee would be useful,
although I know it is a difficult area and there could be serious delays.
It is not correct, however, for anyone to suggest that all the problems of the Wanganui
computer originated with the Labour Party. I have heard that claimed in the House, and
outside it as well. Both Governments were deeply involved, and both agreed that the
computer was needed. We agreed that it should operate only after the law was in operation.
Well, it was read as being in operation when the House passed it, and we now find that
unfortunately that was not so. We did not do the work on the commencement date that we


## p. 1632 (#88) ############################################

1632
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
should have done, and, as a member of the committee, I accept full responsibility for that.
We should have realised the position; and a legal luminary committee on regulations might
have pointed out-although there were enough legal luminaries on that committee-that
between the passing of the Act and the setting of the information on the computer small
things were at risk. Nevertheless, this quibble about it, and blaming one another, is doing
nothing for this institution or for the Wanganui Computer Centre.
Mr FENTON (Hastings): I am glad, as will the House and the country be, to be assured
by the member for Roskill that he does not share with the member for Auckland Central that
tendency to indulge in recrimination and in what might be called total irresponsibility. The
member for Roskill said he is prepared to be conciliatory about this matter, and that no
particular Government alone should bear the blame for what is supposed to have happened.
The member for Auckland Central was asking for the resignation of four Ministers over the
issue, whilst failing to demand the resignation of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, at
whose behest in 1974 the Heads of Agreement was signed in lieu of a contract-so we have
delicious semantics in those two expressions—after his promising that no contract would be
executed before the safeguards were covered by enactment, and were in operation. So the
member for Auckland Central demonstrates two standards.
He also said that a special committee would need to be set up, presumably if something
with the characteristics of this kind of Act were to be repeated. Then he went on to suggest, I
think, probably another committee dealing with the operation of the Wanganui computer.
He must know that two committees have already been set up by enactment-the policy
committee and the management committee-as well as the Privacy Commissioner, whose
full report on the incident we have here. The member says we are already overregulated.
How can he reconcile that statement with his expressed desire to have yet more committees?
If one looks into this carefully it seems that, in spite of what the member for Roskill
said, what motivated Opposition members after the disclosure of an alleged leak was the
desire for some sort of political capital, some sort of political gain, and some means by which
the Government could be denigrated. In the middle of the committee's proceedings the
member for Auckland Central delivered to committee members a paper in which he made
certain statements quoting—and this is significant-at least one of the expert witnesses. As a
result, on 6 July this year one of those witnesses, on reading paragraph 7 of the report by the
member for Auckland Central, denied categorically that he had made the remarks or the
claims attributed to him. The member had said that the committee heard evidence from Mr
Kennedy, who was the Deputy Chairman of the State Services Commission, that the
premature passing of the order bringing the Act into force had to a degree been a
transgression of the individual rights and liberties of the citizen-and, in parenthesis, this
was in answer to a question from the member for Kapiti to Mr Kennedy on this point. The
note I have written down against that item is: "Mr Kennedy denies this was his view, and he
did not express it." And that statement was accepted by the committee and by the member
for Auckland Central.
A little earlier the member for Auckland Central had said that, as a result of the Act's
coming into force prematurely-the date having been brought forward to 17 February
1977-not all the safety systems had been loaded into the computer. It is again significant
that, by blundering into technical matters that he did not understand, he once more
subjected himself to correction, because the discussion was not about the safety systems, but
about the sub-systems. That relates to a totally different matter when one refers, as the
member for Auckland Central and other Opposition members have referred, to the
premature loading and release of information. In dealing with that, the Deputy Chairman of
the State Services Commission made it very plain indeed that what had occurred to that date
was what he described as "batch loading". We found that information in this form was
available in manual form anyway. So where is the sinister plot, where does the Government
stand condemned, and how can Opposition members possibly say there is culpability of some
kind on the part of the Government?
What sparked off the whole inquiry was, apparently, a move by a policeman to find out
whether a certain employee at the Wanganui Computer Centre could be trusted. In the
event, it was shown clearly that that employee could not be trusted; and what emerged from
that, of course, was that a leak had occurred. However, it is germane to refer to the Privacy
Commissioner's report, particularly where he quotes the sections on security and confiden-
tiality, because the actions of Opposition members have created a need to reassure the
public about security and confidentiality. It is very easy for anybody in Opposition, or
anybody at all, to shatter the normal confidence that the citizen should enjoy when the


## p. 1633 (#89) ############################################

27 July
1633
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
subject under discussion is one that has always been controversial, one about which there has
always been a certain amount of fear, and, therefore, one that can be exploited so simply for
naked political gain.
The commissioner has reported: "The commission shall be wholly responsible for the
provision and maintenance of the physical security of the central site, and shall have the
prerogative to refuse entry to the site of any person or persons who do not conform to the
security standards of the commission. The user departments will be wholly responsible for
the provision and maintenance of the physical security of the remote terminals installed in
the various premises of the user departments. Univac"-which is a contractor—“shall
ensure that all documents, media, papers (including working papers), and other vehicle for
the carriage of the written, printed or spoken word, symbol, data or information in any form
pertaining to the applications of this subject remain secure at all times and are held
confidential to its employees or only such other persons who are authorised to receive such
information. All data and information in any form, including computer programmes and
documentation, pertaining to any New Zealand Government process or activity remains at
all times confidential to the Crown, and may not be divulged, given or passed to any person
or organisation not specifically authorised to receive it. All personnel working on the project
whether employed by Univac or any other body must be security cleared to the commission's
standards and the commission reserves the right to refuse employment on the project of any
person on security grounds."
The Opposition runs the risk of pointing an accusing finger at the commission and at the
management committee. It must remove that accusing finger from this Government,
because it knows full well that no part of what has happened, certainly if there were
culpability on anybody's part, would be a matter with which the Government or any
Government members would concur. For that reason, I am happy that the member for
Roskill has shown that he is prepared to be conciliatory. I suggest to any following
Opposition speakers that they could perhaps be the same, because, if they want to go on to
show culpability, to show negligence, and to show something more sinister on the part of the
Government, I think the trap from which they will not be able to escape is that one of their
own Ministers in a previous Government initiated matters that perhaps he should not have.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): I take up the matter from where the member for Hastings left
it, and, in a conciliatory move, observe that one of the functions of a parliamentarian is to
use such standing and time as he has to look at the acts of the Executive. I believe the
member for Hastings would go along with that 100 percent. He is a good and active member
of the Statutes Revision Committee. In the course of bringing this matter to the attention of
the Statutes Revision Committee, the member for Auckland Central went to the other
aspect of what the member for Hastings was talking about: the need for the public to feel
confidence in the way in which the House discharges its duty and the Government performs
that which is required of it by Parliament. What happened was that, after a long period of
bipartisan involvement, the Wanganui Computer Centre Bill passed its third reading in
September 1976, and shortly thereafter became law.
I take issue, in a moderate way, with the member for Kapiti, who referred to statements
made by the Minister of State Services during the debate. I believe that the climate
prevailing at the time the measure was discussed in the House was that parliamentarians
from both sides were concerned about the legislation being enacted. They accepted that the
data that would go into the computer was available at different places throughout the
country and subject to manual retrieval, and were therefore conscious that, because data
could be extracted only in certain places and by cumbersome procedures, wrong information
in limited areas would not cause the harm it could if available at any one of the 300 terminals
throughout the country.
During those debates the view was developed that the private citizen should have
available to him, not merely the protections of physical security, as are available at
Wanganui, but also the right to obtain a print-out of information held in the data base at
Wanganui. It was fundamental, therefore, to the Minister's assurances when the Bill was
passed that the centre would not become operational in the sense that data would be
retrieved and be available to law enforcement agencies without the citizen having the
contemporaneous right to approach the commissioner for a print-out of the data being
disseminated throughout New Zealand in this electronic fashion. However, as the member
for Auckland Central pointed out, the system was in use as early as December last, without
that contemporaneous protection.
We could argue about the date on which the order bringing the Wanganui Computer


## p. 1634 (#90) ############################################

1634
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
Centre Act into force should have been promulgated. However, it was competent, by
administrative direction, for the Government to have primed the system, to have had the
message-switching facilities for New Zealand communications in use, but not to have
allowed the material stored on the discs to be disseminated until such time as that vital
provision was operative. The matter is now becoming more urgent-and I say this in a non-
partisan fashion-but I am satisfied that Parliament has inculcated in the people the
conviction that, first, there is good physical security at the Wanganui Computer Centre, and,
secondly, that any citizen has the right to an assurance that information held in store about
him is correct. However, we learned today, despite what the member for Kapiti said, that
there is still no way in which the citizens of New Zealand can obtain a print-out of the
information held in the computer system.
We are not arguing about what might have happened in December last, or even during
the periods mentioned by e member for Auckland Central. We are talking about a state of
affairs existing as at 27 July 1977, when the system is in full use, when law enforcement
agencies are quite properly extracting data from the computer for their purposes, and when
the assurances given by parliamentarians can still not be given effect to. The fourth
paragraph of the Privacy Commissioner's annual report states that the procedures to give
this right, which was an integral part of the package of confidence sold to the people of New
Zealand, are still being worked out in consultation with the Post Office. They are still in trial
form, and no information has yet been sent to any applicant. That brings into question
whether there should be any use of the computer's retrieval facility even now, because there
is no doubt that the people have firm confidence in law enforcement agencies, and want to
have the assurance that the documentation about them is correct.
If, at this late hour, those promises made when the Act was passed still cannot be met, I
believe that is the challenge we must face, and which the Statutes Revision Committee has
not faced. Although people in New Plymouth will be anxious, they will not have the
assurance that their member, from his comments, has the slightest interest in what is going
on. The people of New Zealand are entitled to have confidence in security, and to believe
the assurances given by Ministers when they speak in the House. Parliament now has the
chance to give effect to those assurances.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): I was interested in the comments of the member for
Mangere, who took a reasoned approach to the issue, in contrast with the earlier speech
made by the member for Auckland Central. The member for New Lynn seems interested in
taking part in the debate.
Mr Hunt: What's wrong with that?
Mr QUIGLEY: Because of that interest, members might wish to hear what the member
for New Lynn had to say during the second reading debate on the Wanganui Computer
Centre Bill. He talked about what had happened before the introduction of the Bill, and in
Hansard, Volume 404, at page 1126, he is reported as saying: "This will provide a valuable
insight into the enormous number of checks and balances that any legislature has placed on
it. The result is a Bill that represents probably the best legislation of its type. I do not say that
it will stand the test for all time, but I am certain that the ideals of those involved with this
measure will ensure that it stands as an innovative piece of computer legislation." That
comment is similar to one made earlier in the debate by the member for Roskill, who,
together with the member for Mangere, asked what date the Act should have been brought
into force. That question cannot be answered, because there is no correct date, as illustrated
in the report of the Privacy Commissioner, who investigated certain alleged breaches at the
Wanganui Computer Centre.
In his report, the commissioner said that, as the alleged offences were committed on 12
January 1977, they were not offences under the Act, because it had not been brought into
effect until 17 February 1977. Had it been brought into force earlier, all the other machinery
provisions would not have been instituted or have been operative, because the efficacy of the
safeguards do not depend just upon the Act being passed. As members opposite well know,
they depend also on a number of practical considerations, among them being the appoint-
ment of the Privacy Commissioner and the availability of print-outs.
The Wanganui Computer Centre Act has two basic purposes, which are important to
this discussion. First, the Act sets up the Wanganui Computer Centre, and, secondly,
provides legislative safeguards designed to ensure that the privacy of the individual is not
adversely affected. I emphasise those words "adversely affected", because, as the member
for Hastings rightly said, what is stored or processed in, or is capable of being retrieved from,
the Wanganui Computer Centre is information which is already held in various offices


## p. 1635 (#91) ############################################

27 July
1635
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
throughout New Zealand.
The computer centre gives the user departments-Police, Justice, and Transport-a
better means of law enforcement. Of course, when one talks of law enforcement, obviously
one is concerned about infringements of the rights of the individual. The Act provides
several safeguards. It limits what can go on to the system, and restricts access to the system.
There are express provisions that the Wanganui Computer Centre should stand alone, and
should not be linked to any other computer centre. The Act provides a dual system of
control-a policy committee to look after the privacy and the rights of the individual, and a
management committee. It also appoints à Privacy Commissioner, and provides penalties for
infringements. There is no correct date at which the Act should have come into force. Initial
consideration was given to introducing various parts of the legislation in steps, but that was
discarded as being impracticable. I ask the member for New Lynn to say on what date. he
thinks the Act should have been brought into force, and, of course, if he does speak, he will
say that there is no correct date.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I should like to round off some of the
suggestions that have been made as a result of the report of the Statutes Revision
Committee. This inquiry was set in motion by a letter signed by five Opposition
members-the principal mover being the member for Auckland Central-requesting a study
by the Statutes Revision Committee under Standing Order 379 of the regulations bringing
into force the Wanganui Computer Centre Act, which was passed, after considerable
debate, on 9 September last year with the support of both sides of the House. Indeed, during
the debate on the report the former Labour Government's Minister of Labour—and I think
in 1975 Minister of State Services-the member for Roskill, reminded the House of the
praise he had given the Act and of the way both parties had worked together to formulate
the best possible legislation to provide for the security and proper control of the computer
filing system at Wanganui.
We all thought at the time the Bill was passed-and, indeed, the present Minister of
State Services specifically told the House-that no action would be taken on loading the
computer system at Wanganui until the Bill had been passed. What he said has been quoted
by the member for Auckland Central and others, and certainly it was set out in the member's
letter to the Statutes Revision Committee. The Minister of Labour stated: "Both the Labour
Government, and the National Party in its manifesto, gave an implicit undertaking that this
Bill would be passed before the centre came into operation. I want to make that crystal
clear." It was crystal clear, and the centre did not come into operation until February of this
year, some months after the Bill had been passed.
The request by five Opposition members was made in April of this year, some 2 months
after the commencement order had been made by the Governor-General in Executive
Council, so that it was a post factum request. It has now been suggested that there is so much
virtue in the use of Standing Order 379, and its concomitant 378, that a full-time select
committee of the House should be established to examine every regulation made by the
Executive. That is taking things to the point of absurdity in a House of 87 members. All
members know that we have obligations to sit on, usually, several select committees. To add
another standing committee to look at every regulation would make our work in the House
even less effective than at present when already we have several committees to attend.
It is a good Standing Order when there is serious reason for using it, as there was
recently when the Statutes Revision Committee, working under Standing Order 378, looked
at regulations made about diving for crayfish. That was triggered off by the request of a
group of interested citizens and, in particular, a member of the faculty of one of our law
schools. We were able to make remedies. I point out the difference between that instance,
where the procedure was properly used, and this instance, in which I do not believe that it
was properly used. On the crayfish regulations, the group and the member of the law faculty
concerned had approached the ministry for information and for a hearing, and had tried to
get the ministry to change its attitude. Only when that had not been successful did they ask
for Parliament's authority to be used and for the Statutes Revision Committee to engage in
the study.
Had the member for Auckland Central followed that common-sense and practicable
course, he would not have this report today, which indicates there is nothing in the bogies he
has aroused. He did not go to the Minister of State Services and say, "I think there is
something wrong in this commencement date for the Wanganui Computer Centre." He just
flew straight in and demanded action by the Statutes Revision Committee under Standing
Order 379. As a result of that it has been demonstrated that he cannot even now suggest to


## p. 1636 (#92) ############################################

1636
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
Parliament what the commencement date should have been-which leaves him in a position
of some absurdity. He alleged, first, that it had been premature; then, when he found out
that it should have come into force even earlier, he decided it had been too late. So he had
ten bob each way, and alleged that it had been either too early or too late.
When it became evident that a normal, common-sense, practical course had not been
adopted by the member for Auckland Central and that there was some political football
characteristic in his actions, I felt obliged to remind the Statutes Revision Committee-and I
was supported by the member for Mangere-that our concern was to see that the Act and
any regulations made under it operate properly, to give effect to the people's concern that
the computer centre shall operate with adequate security and confidentiality of the informa-
tion retained by it or retrievable from it. I believe that is now the situation.
Although members on both sides of the House thought the Act was as good as we could
possibly make it—and the member for Roskill agrees on that-we now know that, as with
most Acts in novel areas, after a bit of experience, it needs amending. Indeed, that has been
indicated by the Privacy Commissioner in his report tabled today, in which he says, "That
there should be deficiencies in a piece of legislation which ventures into a new and difficult
field in this country is perhaps not surprising." I am sure all Ministers and ex-Ministers on
both sides of the House agree with that.
I hope members will not rush to use Standing Orders 378 and 379 and require the
Statutes Revision Committee to look at regulations. Possible problems should be explored
first with the administering Minister. As the late Norman Kirk used to say, there is a danger
of paralysis by analysis if we start things with such concentration that we get nothing done. I
do not believe members on either side of the House want that. For that reason, too, I do not
consider there is any merit in the suggestion made by the member for Auckland Central and
supported by the member for Roskill that another select committee be set up to take a
continuing look at regulations made by whatever Government is in power. We are here to
get on with the job of passing law and making it as clear and certain as we possibly can. I
reiterate that it is our job to ensure that the empowering clauses we pass-the provisions that
empower the making of regulations-are as clear and as certain as they can be.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): The speech just given by the Minister of Justice should be read
very carefully by every member of all civil liberties groups in the country. He attempted to
soft-soap the efforts of members of the House by saying that, rather than coming out and
making a statement in the House and rather than calling a select committee together, they
should have a talk with the Minister first. Why then should any member have to worry about
Parliament at all? Why not just have Government by the Executive, and not worry about the
important democratic checks that a proper Legislature such as ours provides?
Mr McLay: Nonsense.
Mr HUNT: The Minister of Justice then threw cold water on the suggestion made by the
member for Auckland Central, that a select committee be set up to look at and investigate
regulations. This year Opposition members have had great difficulty in actually getting any
regulations to the committee, and that indicates clearly to me that this matter needs urgent
consideration. The member for Birkenhead and the member for Rangiora can say what they
like, but I remind them that when I attempted to get a regulation to the committee I was not
able to do so, even though the grounds given for denying the hearing were, in my opinion,
frankly specious.
Mr McLay: Nonsense.
Mr HUNT: The Standing Order does not provide for regulations to be referred to the
Statutes Revision Committee at all times; it enables them to be referred only when the
House is not sitting. One of the least satisfactory aspects of the report eventually signed by
the member for Birkenhead is that it talks too much of Executive rather than parliamentary
action.
Mr McLay: Nonsense.
Mr HUNT: I have heard the member for Birkenhead say "nonsense" at least three times
during my speech so far. If he wants to make any further reference to comments made I
suggest he does so in his reply, when I have finished. The Minister of Justice conveniently
ignored certain aspects of the evidence and the report, and said that we had to be sure the
computer is working and that people have confidence. The astonishing thing is that the
report tabled today says, "No information has yet been sent to any applicant, despite the fact
that nine people have written asking what is on the computer about them." That is a
shocking state of affairs and one that cannot be allowed to continue any longer. My
colleague, the member for Auckland Central, rightly called attention to some of the more


## p. 1637 (#93) ############################################

27 July
1637
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
serious matters to which this can give rise.
This afternoon I had time to read the report made by the Privacy Commissioner into
unauthorised retrieval and disclosure of information from the Wanganui Computer Centre,
and it is interesting to reflect on the comment he makes in the last sentence of page 15,
headed "Summary". He gives details of the police introducing fictitious information into the
computer which was later retrieved and disclosed to the under-cover policeman by the
employee, and goes on to say: "This could not at the time be regarded as constituting an
offence under the Wanganui Computer Centre Act 1976, which was not then in force, but I
believe there is considerable doubt as to whether the insertion of fictitious material for such a
purpose is now legally authorised and does not give rise to criminal liability."
We were told that the moves taken to authorise the publishing of information in the
Wanganui Computer Centre were made by Cabinet-by Executive action, and not just on
the decision of a Government servant. If that is so, and we now have the situation where
there is considerable doubt as to whether the insertion of fictitious material for such a
purpose is legally authorised and does not give rise to criminal liability, I wonder if the
Attorney-General is prepared to prosecute one of his colleagues for criminal liability. I
notice that no comments are being made at the moment, and I suggest that the member for
Birkenhead should have a convincing answer to that question, or many civil liberties groups
throughout the country will be concerned. No matter what was said so eloquently by the
member for Roskill, we wanted this to be a bipartisan, non-political thing, and in fact
thought it would be right up to the time the committee met. Indeed, we were told that it was.
The report was written by Mr Laking, for whom I have the highest regard, and I have no
doubt whatever about his personal integrity. It is clear that there is doubt in Mr Laking's
mind as to whether or not the insertion of fictitious material is now legally authorised, and he
believes it may give rise to criminal liability. No members of the Police or of the State
services were responsible; they were acting under Executive direction—the direction of
Cabinet, of whom the Minister of Justice is a member. However, he tells everyone, "If you
have a complaint, don't bring it up in Parliament or with your friends; just come and see me.
I will give you a pat on the shoulder and tell you the real story." That might be all right for
Government members, and particularly for the member for Eden, who, as we saw when he
was interviewed on television, does not want open government. He said that we did not want
more open government and that some of our government was far too open now. I had hoped
that the member for Rangiora and the member for Birkenhead, who are lawyers, would
have a better understanding of the position. I believe both have an interest in the matter and
that in the past the member for Birkenhead has made statements upholding the need for the
privacy of the individual. They are back-bench members of a Government that has already
had one of its ministers convicted of breaking the law, and in fact this is another instance
where there could be a case-
Mr D. M. J. Jones: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I think I heard the
honourable member say that a Minister had been convicted for breaking the law. I
understood that there was a court case in a civil jurisdiction, which does not end in a
conviction, and I ask you to rule that the member for New Lynn is wrong in his statement
and should withdraw it.
Mr HUNT: Speaking to the point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker, I understood that the
Prime Minister had been taken to court and a decision found against him. If the word
"convicted" does not mean the same as the word "guilty", I shall be happy to apologise for
the word "convicted" and will substitute the word "guilty". But I thought that what I had
been saying was factual.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Speaking further to the point of order, the honourable member
obviously does not understand what happened then, which is perhaps reflected in this
debate. It was a civil case, and I should have thought members opposite, particularly those
on the Statutes Revision Committee, would have known the distinction between a civil case,
which is decided purely on the balance of probabilities and from the point of view of civil
remedies, and a criminal case, which results in a conviction. I understand that the member
for New Lynn is not suggesting that it was a criminal case. He should be asked to use the
proper terminology and not throw disrepute on all members of the House, as he is doing by
using the word "conviction".
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER; The point was properly raised. I am informed that one is
found guilty if convicted in a criminal case, but has judgment entered against him in a civil
case. I am also informed that the case referred to was a civil case, and so the word used by
the member for New Lynn, suggesting that the Prime Minister had been convicted, implies,


## p. 1638 (#94) ############################################

1638
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
of course, that he had been found guilty or convicted of a criminal offence, and that is not
correct. The member for New Lynn said he would withdraw the word "convicted" and
apologise for using it. He then said he would substitute the word "guilty". I think it would be
appropriate if he withdrew both words and apologised for the use of both.
Mr HUNT: I apologise, and withdraw both terms. I have found out from my legal
colleague that I should have said that the Prime Minister had been found "liable". There is
no doubt in my mind that there is a crime of criminal liability, and we will be very interested
to see what happens as a result of this latest report. The computer centre started operating
from 8 December 1976. The actual report states, "vehicles of interest-batch load-data
loaded 5 October 1976 to 10 October 1976, operational for the Transport Department on 8
December 1976". That is about 2 or 3 months before the regulation was brought down
bringing this Act into force. I, together with all other members I am sure, want any
legislation involving privacy and computers to have the widest possible support of this
House, but I remember being a member of a Labour Government which was chided by the
then Opposition because of the introduction of this Bill, and the fears that some groups had
fed to it about this computer centre. Even the member for Waitemata must now realise that
these two reports, A.4 and A.4A from the Wanganui Computer Centre Privacy Commis-
sioner, will give the Government a great deal of concern for the immediate future. I hope the
following three courses of action will be taken: first, an immediate investigation by the
Attorney-General into whether or not there has been any breach of any Act by a member of
the Executive—
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentleman, but his
time has expired.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services): It is probably appropriate that I, as
Minister in charge, should try and weave my way through what seems a most divergent
approach from the Opposition: two emotional outbursts on the one hand, and two.restrained
and practical speeches on the other. I crave the indulgence of the House for quoting at some
length from several documents, including the report tabled today and alluded to by the
member for New Lynn. This appears on page 8 of the Privacy Commissioner's report: "This
contract"—that is, the contract signed by the Labour Government-"provided that Univac
would deliver computer equipment to the Wanganui Computer Centre and implement a
computer system; it also provided that Univac would be responsible for the operation of the
equipment and the system at the centre until March 1978. . ." A little further down the page,
in paragraph 17.3, we see the appropriate wording for the contract form signed by the then
Minister of State Services, the present member for Otahuhu: "Univac shall ensure that all
documents, media, papers (including working papers)..."—and I draw particular attention
to those words, "including working papers". Paragraph 17.4 on page 9 states, as one of my
colleagues has mentioned: "All data and information in any form including computer
programmes and documentation, pertaining to any New Zealand Government process or
activity remains at all times confidential to the Crown . . .". On page 15 we find this
paragraph: "In January 1977 there was I believe a measure of uncertainty as to the extent to
which real and fictitious information was, and should be, used for training and testing
purposes."
One has to take those two items in context. The Privacy Commissioner has indicated
that there should be some training and testing. I remind members of the Opposition, who are
hypercritical of the present situation, that a Policy Committee, as distinct from the Statutes
Revision Committee, was set up by the bipartisan select committee of the House. It has
reported to me on the question of what should or should not go into the computer, and has
recommended certain minor alterations in the legislation, as has the Privacy Commissioner.
It is likely that the House will see legislation putting appropriate penalties on those who do
break confidentiality.
Mr Hunt: Will the legislation be referred to a select committee?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: It will depend on the legislation, which I have not yet seen.
Mr Hunt: Here is open government again.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The member for New Lynn was very emotional in his outburst,
and I commend him to lean over to his left and talk to the member for Mangere, who was
very restrained and responsible in his own speech.
Mr Hunt: He agreed with what I said.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: He may have agreed with some of what was said, but I doubt
whether he would have agreed with the manner in which it was said. There is a distinction. I
am a little disturbed that the public and members of this House may have inferred from


## p. 1639 (#95) ############################################

27 July
1639
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
statements made by the Opposition that many things are wrong with the computer. The
Privacy Commissioner in his report said, "In spite of this situation the incidents of improper
retrieval and use of information from the centre which has so far come under notice were
quickly detected." What is more important, on page 16 mention is made of potential
weaknesses in the security arrangements at the centre: "Some of them, as this report
indicates, were a by-product of the division of control between the State Services Commis-
sion and the contractors during the running-in and hand-over period and many of the
weaknesses have since been eliminated. I am bound to say in fairness to the State Services
Commission that these weaknesses would almost certainly have been identified and elimi-
nated as the commission increasingly assumed effective control." The Labour Government
set out the programme and signed the contract. The National Government stepped in and
made the Act work ahead of the contract date. Even on that contract date not all the sub-
systems, information, and items in the schedule given to the Statutes Revision Committee
were in operation.
Mr Lange: And not the print-out.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Indeed, the Privacy Commissioner has gone further. I am looking
to the difficulty of interpreting print-outs. The only print-out which went astray is the one
which has been alluded to in the incident in January 1977, and I was not fully aware of that
when the Act was brought into force by the regulation which the member for Auckland
Central drew to the attention of the committee. What we should get into perspective is that
the contract completion date was to be 15 March and at that later date the user departments
themselves were still not in possession of all sub-systems. In other words, the important
point is that, while the whole computer system was not working, the complete system was in
place. The contract which had been let by the Labour Minister of State Services was on the
target date of 15 March, and the Government had to move accordingly before that to protect
the interests of the people. On 17 February only those sub-systems which were listed were
available for use; and indeed I think the member for New Lynn listed the ones that were
available.
Mr Prebble: Before 17 February.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Yes, and they were vehicles of interest in transport, wanted
persons, and the drivers' licences register. Those were the only ones available on the
implementation date.
Mr Prebble: Nonsense.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Well then, will the member please point out from the schedule
where else simple information was taken out before the authorisation date?
Mr Prebble: What about missing persons?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I have indicated that. I have read the two dates on that schedule
which referred to vehicles of interest, wanted and missing persons, and the drivers' licence
register. I have to emphasise, as the Minister, that we had to choose a date that was the best
possible in order to get the contractors out of the building. The member for Auckland
Central was at the centre between 3 and 4 weeks after I had been there, and he would know
that the contractors and the maintenance and inspection people were still present. I believe
we chose the February date as the best possible in order to obtain a degree of control over
the contractors and maintenance men, because on that date only those sub-systems which
have been alluded to were capable of retrieving information.
We also had to arrange with the user departments a method by which machine print-
outs would be transcribed into an intelligible form. That point has been overlooked by many
speakers. Members of the public will have been left with the impression that such print-outs
are capable of being used-and here may I exaggerate to make the point-for such things as
blackmail or other serious matters. The Act was in force before anything like that could
come out, and, secondly, it has been shown that the print-out forms were unintelligible for
those not aware of the system. We chose the optimum course left to us because of a contract
which had been signed by the Labour Government. I have nothing to hide and nothing to be
ashamed of in the date I chose for the passing by way of the regulation.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): The Minister is quite correct in saying that he and his
advisers chose the optimum date, and that is the finding of the select committee. I remind
the House again that the Labour members who placed this matter before the select
committee were unable to suggest any earlier or later date that would have been more
suitable as the commencement date for the Wanganui Computer Centre Act. They have had
the opportunity this afternoon to suggest a more suitable date, but have not done so. I
compliment the Minister on choosing the date he did, and particularly in advancing the


## p. 1640 (#96) ############################################

1640
27 July
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commencement Order
originally proposed date of 1 April.
I have been shocked and astounded at some of the claims made by Opposition members
during this debate. Those claims were of the most irresponsible kind because they were not
based on any facts placed before the select committee or on any fact contained in either of
the two reports which have been tabled today. They were based on idle, dangerous, and
irresponsible chatter and nothing more, and can serve only to reduce the confidence of the
public in the computer system, which members opposite support as much as do members on
this side. What members opposite failed to tell the House-and this applies to the member
for New Lynn, who said that information was being drawn off in December 1976-was that
that date was in accordance with the programme laid down by the previous Labour
Government.
When he mentioned that the safeguards were not in operation in December 1976 he also
failed to tell the House that that too was in accordance with the programme laid down by the
Labour Government. Inevitably, under the programme laid down by the previous Adminis-
tration, there would be a hiatus between the date on which information could be drawn off
the computer and the date on which safeguards would be available. The member for
Mangere asserted that it would be possible for the Government to prime the system to
prevent information from being drawn off but to enable message switching to be used, but
there was no evidence before the select committee, and there is no evidence before this
House, that that would be technically possible. In fact, the moment information was fed into
the computer it was at risk of being taken off, and the earlier the commencement date
chosen by the Government the better, consistent with the safeguards within the Act.
I was surprised to hear the member for New Lynn claim today that he and other
members of the Opposition had had great difficulty in having regulations referred to the
Statutes Revision Committee. That is just not correct. Only three attempts have been made
this year to have regulations considered by the Statutes Revision Committee. First, there
were the rock lobster regulations, which were dealt with by the committee in a manner which
even the member for New Lynn complimented. The second was the Wanganui Computer
Centre Act Commencement Order which we are discussing today, after having been dealt
with by the Statutes Revision Committee. The third attempt was when the member for New
Lynn wrote to me and to the Clerk of the House asking that the regulations relating to
School Certificate assessment be reviewed by the committee, but we discovered that there
were no such regulations. So we have had three attempts by members opposite to have
matters referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. The first two were acceded to because
there were regulations in force. In the third instance we could not consider the regulations
because they did not exist.
The most irresponsible statement I heard this afternoon was that the Cabinet had
authorised the placement of false information in the computer system. That statement was so
highly irresponsible that I should have expected the member for New Lynn, who made it, to
withdraw it immediately. There was absolutely no suggestion in the material tabled today in
the House, that Cabinet had authorised the placement of false information. Finally, I remind
the House that Opposition members who had this matter before the committee tried, as the
Minister has suggested, to have ten bob each way. They wanted to assert on one hand that
the Act had been brought into force too early, and in the same letter-in almost the same
paragraph-they suggested it had been brought into force too late. They cannot have it both
ways. The select committee decided that the Act was brought into force on the best date
possible.
Motion agreed to.
CITIZENS AND ALIENS BILL
Interrupted debate on the question, That the report do lie upon the table; and the
amendment proposed thereto.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): When I was discussing this issue some days ago I referred to
three specific matters raised by the member for Auckland Central on all of which he had
reached an incorrect conclusion. The first was a suggestion that the Minister of Internal
Affairs was perhaps meddling or discourteous in bringing to the notice of the Statutes
Revision Committee the possible introduction of legislation relating to aliens. That sugges-
tion was completely incorrect.
Debate interrupted.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.


## p. 1641 (#97) ############################################

27 July
1641
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): The Minister of Works did not use all the
time available to him last night, because he obviously found it impossible to defend this
Budget. I do not propose to deal much further with his speech except to say that, next to the
Minister of Finance, he is the Minister with the most disastrous record. He presided over the
cutback in the Government works programme that sent builders and construction companies
into bankruptcy, liquidation, and idleness, forcing skilled workers into voluntary unemploy-
ment. He also cut roading and bridge programmes, and deferred vital export-boosting
irrigation and development works at a time when they were urgently needed. That policy is
in direct conflict with the Budget's call for greater export earnings. The Labour Government
would not have deferred the Wairau, Maniototo, or Clutha schemes.
The Minister of Works spoke about the level of Government expenditure that was
necessary under the Labour Government to offset the fall in private spending and to
maintain momentum in our economy when export prices fell. I remember what the Prime
Minister said during the Budget debate last year on that subject, and I quote from Hansard,
Volume 405, at page 1908: "In 3 years under the Labour Government the proportion of the
New Zealand economy in the public sector increased from 30 to 42 percent-12 percent of
the economy was taken by the Labour Government and moved from the private sector into
the public sector. That is socialism by stealth, because the people did not know it was
happening." In this year's Budget he has this to say: "Last year we succeeded in bringing
expenditure down to approximately 36 percent of GNP. This year, the indications are that
Government expenditure will amount to about 38 percent of GNP." The Minister of Finance
is now increasing Government expenditure as a percentage of the gross national
product—and, to use his own words, is this socialism by stealth? The Budget gives ample
reasons for believing it is, because the Government is nationalising oil exploration in this
country. The Government is in fact practising socialism by stealth. In a recent editorial
headed "Private Enterprise RIP 1980", the New Zealand Contractors Federation said that
the National Government was replacing private enterprise contractors with Ministry of
Works and other Government operators. I could say that this is socialism by stealth, but I
will not.
The truth is that, because of his inexperience in economic management, the Prime
Minister cut Government expenditure too heavily last year, which brought the economy and
many businesses to the verge of collapse. It is essential that he correct his mistake and
increase Government expenditure as a percentage of national product. Nevertheless, I want
to suggest that his judgment is still faulty. He has not increased Government spending
enough, and has not allocated sufficient funds to critical areas. Savage cuts have been made
to housing when people are crying out for houses and the building industry is on the brink of
collapse. The Prime Minister has backed away from the critical challenge that New Zealand
faces if growth and stability are to be restored. The Budget has failed to restore business
confidence and confidence to invest, and hence fails to make that vital contribution to
increased output and productivity that is so essential to overcome our basic economic
problems. It fails to lift productivity, profits, wages, and salaries, and yield the Government
the extra revenues that are necessary to enable it to offer realistic incentives to encourage
investors and exporters to have a go, and it fails to encourage businesses and those who work
for them to face the future with confidence, knowing there is something in it for them after
tax when they have helped increase production and build a more prosperous New Zealand.
Without business confidence and investment one cannot build a strong economic base, and
without a strong economic base and an expanding economy it is not possible for the
Government to provide the range of services expected in hospitals, for the handicapped, for
child care, and for the needs of the elderly members of the community. Without a sound
economic base there can be no realistic tax concessions, incentives, grants, or subsidies, and
there can be no incentives to aid industry and regional development. There can be no
additional money for law and order, for our police and defence services, and for aid to
developing countries, either. The Budget strikes a disastrous blow at the building industry,
on which the propsperity of so many other industries depends. Knocking the building
industry means knocking manufacturers of building supplies, electrical fittings, plumbing
and roofing supplies, furniture, bedding, glassware, furnishings, stoves, refrigerators, and
washing machines, as well as plumbers, drainlayers, roading contractors, and many other


## p. 1642 (#98) ############################################

1642
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement.
associated tradesmen.
In announcing reduced house building contracts the Minister of Finance said: "The
Government is concerned to ensure that the building industry's adjustment to a lower level
of activity proceeds gradually. A limited amount of support is considered desirable now to
prevent too abrupt a contraction." Those two sentences mean the end of the road and
certain bankrupty or liquidation for many people in the housing construction industry.
The housing vote and housing finance have been cumulatively cut in the Govern-
ment's two Budgets by $230 million-less any second mortgage money that the Government
will make available this year-compared with the levels of expenditure under the Labour
Government. As another deterrent to home ownership, the Government has increased the
prime lending rate of the Housing Corporation. I suggest that it does not make sense to
knock industries supplying the domestic market. It does not make sense to have people
unemployed, plant and machinery idle, and unutilised resources when the country wants
increased employment opportunities, jobs for the people, increased productivity, and
greater cost and price stability. The Government has an obligation to find the money to put
idle manpower and resources together instead of plunging them into further unemployment
and idleness.
At this time when we face a battle with inflation we need rising output to overcome it. If
the Government does not know how to proceed, because of a shortage of overseas funds, it
should encourage activities that use a minimum of products and services requiring expendi-
ture of overseas funds. The Government should promote, as the Labour Government has
done in the past, efficient import substitute industries, and this is now being done in the
Budget. Price controls and other administrative measures have their place in dealing with
inflation, but in the long run if the Government is to beat inflation it must do it through
efficiency in production, by raising productivity, by improving the cost structure of our
industries, and through increased output. It is essential and highly desirable to have
increased output so that overheads can be spread over more units, thus reducing the
overhead per unit.
Where is the declaration to tackle inflation in the Budget? Page 43 of the Budget states,
"After 20 months in office the Government can claim that substantial results have been
achieved." Is that seen in the balance of payments? In March 1976 the deficit was $1,017
million. By March 1977 the deficit was $861 million. It is forecast that next year the balance
of payments deficit will increase by more than $100 million to $965 million, and that will be
after the Government has had the benefit, in this March year, of an increase in export
earnings of $1,300 million more than was available to the Labour Government. I ask the
Goverment if that is an achievement.
In 1975, before the election, the Prime Minister said in the House, "I tell him now
across the House that either before or immediately after the election either his Government
or another Government will put direct restraints on importing." Did he do that? Is the
employment record of the Government an achievement? Is a 7.4 percent increase in the cost
of living in the first 6 months of this year an achievement? More than 3400 people left New
Zealand during May of this year. That is a record loss in any month since World War II, and
hardly the achievement that the country wants.
The Government has other achievements to its record. Total taxation, tax per head of
population, and tax as a percentage of national income are at all-time record levels. The total
tax for this year is $4,750 million, and the tax per head of population-man, woman, and
child-is $1.530. That is a startling figure. The tax as a percentage of national income is 38.79
percent-nearly 39 percent. The growing burden of tax has increased by $893 million, but no
significant tax relief has been granted to people on middle incomes and to many on lower
incomes. This group includes beneficiaries who were compulsorily transferred to national
superannuation, which is taxed. Before national superannuation they received a pension that
was non-taxable. In the Budget, tax is increased by about $300 per head of population, an
all-time record.
That brings me to the Budget provisions for the young-family rebate and for the one-
income families. The Leader of the Opposition and Opposition members have urged the
Government to take action for these families. Last year the Government's Council of Social
Service pointed out the deteriorating family income situation and made urgent recommenda-
tions to the Government to act. The Government failed to do anything until the Budget, and
then only in a limited way. On the face of it, the provisions for young-family rebates and for
the one-income family look generous, until it is remembered that the family benefit has not
been increased to offset inflation since it was last increased. One must remember that


## p. 1643 (#99) ############################################

27 July
1643
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
executives and wage and salary earners have received wage increases to compensate for the
increased cost of living, but the Government has not given them a compensatory personal
tax exemption so that they can retain the benefit of that increase. The wage increase was
given to compensate for the cost of living, but it was subject to Government stabilisation
policies, and hence the people did not receive the full cost increase due to them.
The Government had an obligation to ensure that what the wage and salary earners
received was conserved by increasing the personal tax exemptions. In adjustments to salary
levels since this Government took office-with the amount necessary to compensate for the
rise in the cost of living and the increased tax imposed-the man on $100 a week should have
had a personal tax exemption equivalent to $7 a week. That would be necessary to conserve
the cost of living increase. Tax is at an all-time record because the Government taxed the
man instead of giving him that money. A man earning $120 a week should have received $10
a week reduction in taxation equivalent, a man earning $150 a week should have received
$14 a week tax reduction, and a man earning $200 a week should have received $19 a week.
Further, the Government failed to implement the recommendations of the Council of
Social Service to increase the family benefit. In an answer to a question in the House some
time ago, it was shown that the family benefit should have been increased by $2.25 to equate
with the purchasing power when it was last increased. The $2.25 should now be $2.50. That
means that, for every child, parents have been receiving $2.50 a week less than they should
have received. Take a man with three children. He should have got $2.50 a week extra for
each child, which would be $7.50 a week. If he had an income of $100 a week he should have
received a $7 tax rebate to offset the effect of tax on the cost of living increase. He should
have got $14.50 a week, but under this Budget he gets $13. On the face of it the provision
looks generous but, when one looks at the facts, the one-income family and the family with
dependent children are losing out.
Take the man on $150 a week. If he had three children he should have got $7.50 a week
in additional family benefit. He should have had $14 in additional tax rebate, making $21.50,
but the Government has given him $13. He has been short changed by $8 a week. A man on
$200 a week with three dependent children should have received $7.50 in additional family
benefit and tax relief of $19, a total of $26.50, but all he got was $8 a week. When one looks
at the one-income family provision and the provision for dependants, one finds it is not
generous. The Government is cunningly short changing those people. While we welcome
any tax relief that can be properly given at any time, equitable tax relief for all families is
essential now.
That tax relief has been limited to families with children up to 9 years of age. It is a pity
it was not extended to all families with dependent children 10 years of age or more.
Everyone knows how high are the costs of children at secondary school-shoes, clothes, and
food. It has been suggested that women with children over 10 years of age should go out to
work. What about the Cabinet committee on family affairs? It is driving the mothers out to
work instead of protecting the family. If mothers stay home to look after their children they
should receive tax incentives and rebates the same as those who go to work. Indeed, with
unemployment as it is at present, how many women can get jobs when they need them?
The National Party's conference condemned the Government and the Budget and
demanded that there be further tax relief and exemptions for the family man. The
Government has an obligation to honour that. The President of the New Zealand Society of
Accountants, Mr Mann, speaking yesterday in Tauranga, said that New Zealand must make
up its mind whether it supported the family concept of the mother's prime responsibility
being to her home and the upbringing of her children, if that was what she chose, or,
alternatively, whether all women should go to work. The chairman of the Cabinet committee
on family affairs should have a talk with the Prime Minister about that, and about the way
the Prime Minister is treating mothers with dependent children, particularly those with
dependent children 10 years of age and over.
I make my final point to the Minister of Social Welfare. In statements to newspapers I
have set out precise figures showing that many people are worse off under national
superannuation already than they would have been under the existing pension if it were
adjusted for the cost of living and they received the concessions and benefits formerly due to
them. When I put that proposition to the Minister in the House the other day, the Minister
said it was not correct. I challenge the Minister to disprove those figures. I shall quote three
examples. First, single persons over 60 with $10 a week other income would have received,
with age benefit and concessions, $53.34 a week; under national superannuation they receive
$50.18, or $3.16 a week less. Secondly, a married couple with one partner under 60 and other


## p. 1644 (#100) ###########################################

1644
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
income of $10 a week would have received, from the age benefit and concessions, $81.40 a
week; under national superannuation they receive $76.50 a week, or $4.90 a week less. I
challenge the Minister to deny that. Thirdly, a married couple both over 60 with additional
income of $10 a week would have received $81.40 under the age benefits and concessions;
under national superannuation they receive $80.14 a week, a reduction of $1.26 a week.
There are thousands of cases like that. The figures are correct, and I challenge the Minister
to disprove them in any respect.
The Government has run away from its basic obligations in this Budget. At a time when
the country is at crisis level economically, when we have bankruptcies, and firms folding up,
when the economy is resting on a knife edge, the Government had an obligation to produce
policies and incentives that would restore business confidence and encourage investment
that would increase production and ensure full employment.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I
should like to draw to your attention a practice that has become so prevalent as to appear to
be a tactic, and that is of Government members deliberately standing in the aisles and talking
when Opposition speakers have the floor.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Look at the member for Porirua now!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: At 7.37 p.m. there were no fewer than seven Government
members standing in the aisles; at 7.40 p.m. there were three; at 7.50 p.m. there were two;
at 7.55 p.m. there were three; and I also draw to your attention-[Interruption.]
Hon. J. B. Gordon: Look behind you!
Mr SPEAKER: Order! [Interruption.]
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The fact that you customarily ask for silence when a point
of order is being taken.
Hon. T. F. Gill: This is too hilarious.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: This practice of talking in the aisles has become so
prevalent that it can only be regarded as a tactic. I think that members should be asked to
observe the Standing Order that requires them, if they are having a conversation, either to
be seated or to be out in the lobbies.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The point raised by the worthy Leader of
the Opposition may have some validity when it comes to members standing, but it bites both
ways, as we saw while he was on his feet. I can assure him, and I think he will accept my
assurance, that it is not a tactic, and certainly not a deliberate tactic. It may be that the
member speaking did not arouse the interest of some other members. There were certain
movements. I plead guilty-I was called to two toll calls while the member for Wigram was
speaking. There has to be some movement. I think this is something that must be left to your
discretion, depending on which side is speaking and which side is being casual about it,
bearing in mind the numerical strength. The penny falls both ways.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): I agree entirely with what the Minister of Labour has
just said. There must be discretion, and there must be the right of movement in and out of
the Chamber. That is not the point raised by the Leader of the Opposition. He referred to
the fact that there has been a tendency for members to come into the House and carry on
discussions, sometimes across benches, that can be heard across the House. This tendency
should be stopped. It may very well be that it does not apply to only one side, but I must
confess that we have been disturbed at the development of the tendency, and at the fact that
it has intensified. I hope it can be stopped.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The relevant Standing Order is No. 159,
and it is not quite as discretionary as has been suggested by previous speakers to this point of
order, because it states, "Every member when in the Chamber shall be seated, and shall not
at any time stand in any of the passages or gangways." So, Sir, it is absolute in its terms, and
quite mandatory. I suggest that if the Leader of the Opposition wants to take the Standing
Orders as they are set out he ought to raise a point of order immediately he sees anybody, on
either side of the House, offending against that order.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I must confess that some talk was going on in the
passages while the honourable member was speaking. An Opposition member was over
here; he came to me, and asked me for an autograph-a very worthy cause. He leaned across
me, and spoke to my colleague. He went round our benches, while the member for Wigram
was speaking, asking Government members to sign an autograph book. I regret that I did
nothing to discourage him.


## p. 1645 (#101) ###########################################

27 July
1645
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr SPEAKER: The right honourable gentleman is quite entitled to raise the point, and
I shall watch it, even though I should be surprised if there were any indication of an
intentional tactic about the matter. The point is properly made that there should be a
minimum of standing round in the passages. The slightly discourteous indication, when there
was a lot of laughter, that it is customary for the Speaker, presumably, to see that points of
order are heard in silence arose, as the right honourable gentleman apparently did not
realise, from the fact that while he was presenting his point of order one of his own members
was standing behind him talking to a colleague. That is what caused the crescendo of
laughter. Nevertheless, the point is properly raised, and I ask members to avoid undue
standing in gangways.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): What a lot of stuff and nonsense
we have listened to. The member for Wigram was talking with his tongue in his cheek.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: What nonsense!
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The member for Roskill says that, but the president of
the New Zealand Beneficiaries Association wrote to the Labour Minister of Social Welfare
to ask what the Labour Government's policy was for the pensioners, and that letter still
remains unanswered. He should be the last one to rise in the House and talk about social
benefits. Where is the Labour Party's policy? Even the beneficiaries could not get it.
Hon. Michael Connelly: You're the Government.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: When the honourable member was on the Government
benches, he was not the Minister. The beneficiaries wrote to his colleague, the Hon. Mr
King, and they still do not know what he thought about it. At least we produced a policy. I
do not want to spend too much time replying to the honourable member, because I want to
talk about transport. The honourable member talked about a cutback in the works policy,
and attacked my colleague the Minister of Works and Development. Of course there were
cutbacks, because the Labour Government left us with a $1,400 million deficit. Where were
we going to get the money from?
Mr Hunt: You put it up another $100 million.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: We have got it up, the honourable member is right. We
are beginning to correct the economy. Then he talked about socialism by stealth. What utter
rubbish! What about Rolleston? The Labour Minister of Works and Development overnight
told all those people that their farms and their properties would be taken, and the
honourable member knows what happened. I sat with the Labour Minister at a meeting in
Rolleston when the people pleaded with him, as Minister of Works and Development, not to
do it, but he still went on. He was going to do a good job, because he was going to put a city
there. Of course they were pleased about it; they wanted to do it. But talk about socialism! If
that was not socialism, what is?
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: It needs to be done.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Here is the member for Roskill saying that it needs to be
done.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Well, it does.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: After he lost an election on it-that is what happened to
him. I want to talk tonight about transport. I saw a notice of motion-I think it was in the
name of the member for Timaru-about consultation, mentioning a Mr Gresham, who is
Secretary of the New Zealand Road Transport Association. I think this was about the day
before the Budget. I quote from a letter signed by Mr Gresham.
Mr Hunt: What date?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Here it comes, if the member would only be patient. It is
signed by Mr Gresham on behalf of the New Zealand Road Transport Association, and this
is part of what he says.
Mr Hunt: What date?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Is the honourable member going to listen?
Mr Hunt: I just want a date.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Mr Gresham says, "We would like to place on record our
gratitude to you for your representations on our behalf." That is what Mr Gresham has
written to me-here is the letter. His own president issued a press statement, and I will not
read all of it as it would take too long, but Mr Ian Phelong said, "The constructive transport
package heralds a new era in internal goods transport to be marked by increased competition
and efficiency." What do Opposition members think about that? I hope that in this debate
their spokesman and others will tell us, because we have not heard from them before. Since
the Budget was produced there has been dead silence. In months past, people have nearly


## p. 1646 (#102) ###########################################

1646
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
pushed my door down. The Opposition attacked me right, left, and centre. Then we
produced, not the detail-I will give a bit more detail tonight-but our policy, and there is
silence from the press. Goodness gracious me, they were round every 5 minutes before, but I
have hardly seen them since. To be fair to TV2, its representative came and saw me, as well
as one or two others. But generally they are silent, and the Opposition is silent, because I do
not think they know yet what side they are going to come down on.
Mr T. J. Young: Are you going to table that?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: We have done it—and they are sitting there. I understand
that Reg Varney is coming to New Zealand. I would say that he could probably help them,
and probably improve on their effort. They had a whole football team on transport, with a
green paper and a white paper, and an Under-Secretary chucked in, and the Minister of
Housing-the whole lot of them—and they brought forth a mouse. They led the transport
industry up the garden path and down again, and finished up with absolutely nothing. The
member for Timaru talked about consultation. I have listened to consultation for 18 months,
and the people involved appreciate that. More legislation is needed, and I have a list of the
amendments required to bring this policy to fruition. Of course, on every one of these
amendments, every member has a right to speak. An amendment is required for the 150
kilometre limit. I asked for the amendments that would be required to the Transport Act
1962 and the Transport Licensing Regulations 1963. I suppose that Opposition members will
tell us what they think about each of these amendments. Then there are several amendments
to road taxation. The list is quite long, but I will not weary the House with it now. People will
be consulted, and will have a chance to say their piece.
Mr Kirk: What about standing up for the New Zealand Railways?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I am standing up for the New Zealand Railways, as the
member for Sydenham knows, more than he has ever done. If he would stop and listen for a
while, instead of consulting his friend in my electorate and producing notices of
motion-which I presume he writes-he would learn more, and he would eventually grow up
politically.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: He was the Minister's friend.
Mr Kirk: He was your campaign manager in the last election.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: That is right, and the next time, after he went, I had an
increased majority. But I do not want to discuss somebody outside the House. I went from a
2100 to a 5100 majority-so the member for Sydenham can have him, and see what happens.
I am proud to be a member of a Government that is willing to face up to the problems. I
have wondered sometimes why the Labour Government did not act, but since I have been
Minister I know why. A lot of Ministers are involved, as well as caucus. Did each Minister of
the Labour Government pull the other Ministers' coat-tails and say, "Don't do that", or did
they not have a back-bench team to help them through? I think that every time they went to
the barrier the caucus wing flew at them and they could not get agreement. At least we have
a team—a caucus committee plus a caucus that agrees with the policy-which is how a
Government works, not by leading people up the garden path and down again, and doing
nothing.
The Labour Government floundered. The key to transport is direction and co-
ordination, and as Minister of Transport and Minister of Railways, I have been concerned to
attack the basic causes of the many anomalies. I am pleased to say that most of the
responsible opinion on the announcement about the transport measures has been favour-
able. This country has paid the price for the Labour Government's procrastination and lack
of courage in the face of the problem. If the Labour Government had acted instead of
fiddling while Rome burnt, it would have made our job a lot easier. Members opposite talk
about the Railways. Goodness gracious me, for three long years the Labour Government let
the railways fall to pieces, as the member for Roskill knows.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: In 36 months?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I make no apology for what has happened in the
transport sector.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: We didn't expect one, really.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable member had no right to expect an
apology. It is not easy to make these decisions, which are not palatable to some people.
However, the decisions have been made, and I intend to speak about them in more detail
this evening. All sorts of red herrings have been dragged across the track, and anybody
making decisions would strike them. I shall deal first of all with road transport, which we are
aiming to put on a firm basis for the future. I remember when the permanent head of the


## p. 1647 (#103) ###########################################

27 July
1647
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Ministry of Transport, the late Ray Polaschek, discussed this with me. Unfortunately, he was
permanent head for only 3 months after I took office, but he said that when the transport
system was altered the foundation would be laid for the next 20 years. I think that is true,
and is the reason that this has taken longer-and I freely admit it—than I first expected.
The Budget paid particular attention to energy and transport. In his speech last night
the Leader of the Opposition spent very little time on transport. I suppose I could interpret
that as a compliment. The little he did say was absolute nonsense. He talked about
additional costs. However, the Government has taken into consideration the interests of the
consumer, the person who pays, and has been mindful that such action must not clash with
energy conservation, which has to be considered at all times. The Leader of the Opposition
spoke rubbish when he talked about the higher road toll, and the wear and tear on roads and
nerves.
Mr Hunt: That's what the Budget says.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Last night the Leader of the Opposition spoke about it in
a quite different context. His comments were not correct. Transport will remain a licensed
industry. There will be no immediate contamination of our roads, or effect on our traffic.
Each operator will be able to apply for a licence in another region. He will be able to operate
to another region so long as he does not operate within it.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Tell us how the distance charges will work.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable gentleman will find out when I introduce
the relevant legislation.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Tell us tonight. That's what the road transport operators want to
know.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The policies will be implemented with care and
consultation. Does the Opposition approve, or not approve, of what the Government has
done? The honourable member for Timaru keeps trying to interject. As the Opposition
spokesman on transport, will he say whether he agrees with the transport policies?
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I will tell the Minister all about it.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The member has asked me about road taxation, but I
want to know whether he will tell me if the Opposition supports me.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: If the Minister will tell me what the distance charges are.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The restructuring of the transport industry will lay the
foundation for better services for many decades. We believe that the user must be given a
choice so that he can use whichever mode of transport provides the most economic and
efficient way for his goods to be moved. In my own electorate, because of the 40-mile limit,
farmers near Ashburton are unable to have transport operators carry their goods. The train
had to be stopped, a truck had to be driven from Ashburton to pick up the
goods and take them to the farmers, and then go back to Ashburton empty. No one in his
right senses can tell me that that is an economic way of running transport.
Mr Kirk: Would the Minister charge them by the mile?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: People misunderstand-and the member for Sydenham
would be the first to misunderstand-the fact that the railways are ready to accept
competition. The railway line is still there; the people have the right of choice.
Mr Hunt: But no train.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable gentleman obviously does not want the
people to have the right of choice. The member for Timaru is very quick to run to the
newspapers, but since the Budget his silence has been deafening. As everybody knows,
transport was a shambles when the National Government took office. The new 150
kilometre road haulage limit will provide a choice, which I am sure people will take
advantage of. The transport industry will still be licensed. The taxation measures will
provide a policy tool to help establish a more economic relativity between road and rail,
more accurately reflect the roading costs, and ensure a proper income for the National
Roads Board. Urban transport, with its administrative reorganisation-$6.8 million for bus
replacement this year and $44 million for urban rail passenger rolling stock-is getting the
most important revitalisation it has had for years. In going round the country I have found
that the problem faced by bus operators is the replacement of their capital equipment. I am
certain that the biggest help the Auckland Regional Authority could get-and members
opposite must have had similar representations-would be in replacing its buses. Now, at
least, it is in the Budget. The Labour Government knew the position, but did nothing. There
was a $1,400 million deficit. Members opposite sit there trying to laugh themselves out of this
lot, but it is a serious matter.


## p. 1648 (#104) ###########################################

1648
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: We're listening. We're not even interjecting.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Only about a dozen times. These are the structural
economic policy questions that are ultimately crucial to New Zealand's future. The member
for Timaru raised the question of consultation. Everybody involved has been consulted, but
up until now they could not get a decision. The Government had advice from the Transport
Advisory Committee, especially on the 40-mile limit.
Mr Kirk: The South Island was forgotten.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do not think the member has even read the Budget. The
Government also had the benefit of being able to review a wide range of submissions, and an
awareness of the industry's attitude to the issues provided a sound basis for considering the
complex questions. That consultation will continue. Legislation will be brought forward. If
members opposite would read the Wilbur Smith report they would understand what I am
trying to say.
Mr Hunt: What about Waitakere?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: It is still under consultation between the Auckland
Regional Authority and the Railways Department. I have been concerned about the claims
that the new 150-kilometre limit will run down the railways. On the contrary, it will provide a
stimulus and a challenge. It is well known, not only in New Zealand but throughout the
world, that the railways can carry goods more economically over 100 miles than under; and
that road transport is more efficient under that distance. The member for Timaru nods his
head. The railways will continue to be a major force. The new road taxation system for
heavy transport will be set to establish healthy economic price relativities between road and
rail. The railways will not be run down. They were run down when we came into power. We
have had the old story about the railcars, but they would not go any further.
Mr Christie: That's right, after the long years of National Government before 1972.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: What about the 3 years of Labour Government when
absolutely nothing was done? I do not blame the Labour Minister of Railways; his
Government would not give him the money. We will put $44 million into the suburban
system alone. The whole object is to achieve real improvements, and we believe that this is
the way to go about it. I am confident that it will be achieved through a free choice to
transport users for trips up to 150 kilometres. This will have a particular effect on a number
of transport corridors, including Auckland-Hamilton, Wellington-Palmerston North, and
Palmerston North-Wanganui. I wonder what the member for Wanganui thinks about that. Is
he in favour, or not?
Mr Marshall: What are you talking about?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: He says he does not know what I am talking about. He is
the member for Wanganui, and I am talking about Wanganui. I would expect him to listen
when his own electorate is mentioned. I think the decision is a good one. The present
structure of road taxation has developed over the years in a somewhat haphazard fashion. It
has four major components-heavy traffic fees, petrol tax, mileage tax on diesel vehicles,
and sales tax of 40 percent. The wear and tear on the nation's road network increases with
higher laden axle weights. The problem has been that the greater proportion of roading tax
has been borne by smaller trucks and even the car, but the larger trucks cause more wear and
tear.
Mr Kirk: The rich get richer.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Under the Labour Government the rich would get richer
and the poor would get poorer. Obviously, a system was needed to ensure that each type of
vehicle would be taxed according to the costs it imposes on the roading system. The new tax
will meet those needs, and will establish more realistic price relativities between road and
rail. Charging more accurate roading costs will provide a financial incentive to all road
operators to minimise their use of the roads in one way or another. The revenue from road
taxation can be adjusted to meet roading expenditure attributable to heavy vehicles. The
new and greatly improved tax system will include a distance charge, an annual licensing fee
designed to account for road administration costs as well as social and environmental costs
imposed by heavy commercial vehicles, and a lower sales tax on vehicles in excess of 3.5
tonnes gross weight. That change will be introduced in three annual steps from 1 April next
year.
Members opposite have asked me for information, and when I try to give it to the House
they do nothing but laugh and make funny noises. They might listen to see what the
Government has in mind. The road transport industry will be increasing its contribution to
roading funds, but it is not the Government's intention to increase the tax burden on the


## p. 1649 (#105) ###########################################

27 July
1649
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
industry as a whole. As the new system is phased in, the other taxes on heavy vehicles will be
either abolished or phased down, including sales tax, petrol tax, mileage tax, and heavy
traffic fees. On 1 April next year the sales tax on all vehicles other than motorcars and motor
cycles will be reduced from 40 percent to 30 percent. One year later, it will be further
reduced on heavy vehicles, so that for vehicles over 3.5 tonnes it will be 20 percent. A year
later the sales tax for those heavy vehicles will reach 10 percent, the level which now applies
to heavy trailers. In addition, the exemption from sales tax of body-building is to be revoked
at the end of the implementation process.
Members opposite have now become very silent. The heavy traffic fee will be taken over
by the new distance charge. Petrol tax will be rebated against the distance charge, which will
be calculated on the basis of the vehicle's weight, axle configuration, and metered run. The
major objective is to ensure that each type of vehicle is taxed according to the costs it
imposes on the roading system. This system is designed to come as close as is possible in the
New Zealand context to an ideal road taxation system.
I see that my time is almost exhausted, but before concluding I should like to make the
point that we approached the problem on the basis of assisting the consumer. We also knew
that no changes had been made in the road transport industry since 1936. Indeed, the
changes proposed are the biggest ever made, and we have made our decisions on the best
advice we could obtain. I thank all those people involved in giving us advice over the past 18
months to enable us to bring a new era in transport. We have now made the decisions and
the country is waiting to see the results. Do Labour Opposition members agree with the
moves, or do they not? Do they want to go back rather than take the biggest forward step
ever made in transport in New Zealand? I have with me a list of the actions already taken to
improve transport since I was appointed Minister. I also thank my colleagues for the part
they have played and for the work they have done in promoting the change. We look
forward to a new era in transport. The transport industry will always be subject to some
changes as the modes of transport change, but at least we have faced up to the problems and
implemented our aim of co-ordinating transport, considering all users, and bringing before
Parliament and passing legislation towards that end. The people have been crying out for a
change for years.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: They have certainly been waiting for something.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: We waited for 3 years for the member for Timaru to do
something, but he did absolutely nothing. It seems that he was Minister for only one facet of
transport. Of course, he issued a green paper and then a white paper. He then put a pencil
through the latter and brought forth a mouse-and he knows it. I say again that he could not
get the co-operation of the other Labour Government Ministers or of his caucus. They
baulked and waited for an election in the hope that they would win it before taking any
action at all. Now the necessary action has been taken, and I am very proud of it.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): I believe the most effective comment that can be made about
the speech we have just heard from the Minister of Transport is that we in the Opposition
already appear to be heading towards taking over the Government of New Zealand. The
move is one that can be warmly applauded. From his speech, the Minister of Transport
seems as if he is winding down slowly and expects to be phased out of the Government at
about the same time as the Blue Streak is taken out of service. I think I can effectively quote
the Minister's own words in a press handout to the South Island Promotion Association in
Nelson on Friday, 25 March 1977. I remind the House that these are the words of the happy,
vigorous, confident, and exciting Minister of Transport: "I am the fellow who stops things. I
am the one who took off the Rangatira and cut the railcars and closed branch railway lines;
and, while I have been Minister, NAC have trimmed provincial services and the Shipping
Corporation has stopped calling at Timaru. I would agree, on the face of it, all of this does
not seem to do too much for the development of transport in the South Island.”
All I can say is that if those words are an indication of the type of Minister the National
Government has seen fit to place in charge of the Transport portfolio, they sum up the whole
of Cabinet and indeed all Government members. They are on the way out, and the latest
public opinion poll revealed that the people have now woken up to them. I can see the
member for Pahiatua trying to chip in. If he is to be the next Government speaker I hope he
will tell us whether or not he is in favour of NAC's withdrawing the "golden age" travel
concession for those aged between 60 and 65. Is he in favour of that? There is no answer.
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider: A point of order, Mr Acting Speaker. I want to raise a
matter that concerns me. Sometimes when the member for New Lynn is speaking he tends to
ask a series of rhetorical questions. At the moment he has asked only one, and he may leave
4 Vol. 412


## p. 1650 (#106) ###########################################

1650
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
it at that, but often he says, "Does the honourable member agree with that? There is no
answer." I suggest that if he asks a series of questions of that nature it could lead to disorder
in the House by inviting a series of interjections. I suggest that that course has been ruled out
of order before, and I ask for your considered opinion on it.
Mr HUNT: Speaking to the point of order, I acknowledge my error and I am happy to
withdraw my last comment and rephrase it.
The ACTING SPEAKER (Squadron Leader Drayton): Thank you. I need no further
assistance on this point.
Mr HUNT: When the member for Pahiatua speaks in the debate I hope he will tell
everyone whether or not he is in favour of NAC's phasing out the "golden age" concessions
for people aged between 60 and 65. I also ask the Minister of Railways to supply the next
Government speaker with information that will enable him to tell the House whether it is
also intended to abolish the Railways Department travel concession for people aged between
60 and 65. Many people in the House, and others listening to the debate tonight, will be very
interested indeed to hear the answer. The Budget provides for tax relief of $85 million on the
one hand, and on the other hand it proposes to take $750 million by the end of the next
financial year-a net loss to the ordinary New Zealander of $665 million. The Government
promised a home ownership scheme for farm workers in the Budget, but it takes away the
incentive to save because the Housing Corporation interest rates are being raised, so that the
prime rates, to be increased from 7 percent to 8 percent, will result in an additional
payment of $3 a week or $105 a year on a loan of $15,000-money the farm worker can ill
afford.
Mr Wellington: It is $2.97 a week.
Mr HUNT: Well, I am prepared to give the member a 3c benefit of doubt, but even he
must concede that a $2.97 a week additional payment for the farm worker is not satisfactory.
This is the Budget that promises a rebate on rates for those who own homes on the one hand,
but does nothing to assist the hundreds of people who are being emptied out of their homes
because they cannot refinance mortgages. As the Leader of the Opposition said last night,
for every dollar the Budget purports to hand back to the people in income tax, another $9 is
taken away. Furthermore, the relief offered to families with an income of $80 a week is half
the relief overall offered to families on $105 a week. I challenge the next Government
speaker to dispute that fact if he can. The wishy-washy nature of the National Party's
philosophy can best be summed up when one examines what happened at its last conference.
A Rob Muldoon tea towel was handed out, on which was a little ditty that sums up
National's policy superbly:
You can wash it,
You can squash it,
You can wear it
Or just bear it.
You can give it to a friend
And drive him round the bend,
You can use it like a pillow
Or hang and let it billow
In the very friendly economic wind.
I agree with the words, except for those in the last line. I should like to know where the
friendly economic wind is, apart from that which comes from Bob Jones and other people in
the National Party who have an income of more than $30,000 or $40,000 a year.
The National Party promises to be all things to all men. That requires contortions on the
part of its parliamentary representatives. The Prime Minister does it frequently, but he is not
the only one. The National Party's concept of politics was recently summed up by the
member for Palmerston North in attempting to justify to the readers of the Manawatu-
Palmerston North Tribune his change of heart on the shop trading hours legislation. He said,
as reported in the issue of 12 June 1977, "Jumping from one side of the fence to the
other-that's politics." Well, that may be National Party politics, but it is not Labour Party
politics, and I cannot join him on that one at all.
I wish to devote the major part of my address this evening to what I see to be the
objectives in a health service for New Zealand in the 1980s. The Labour Party believes that
the aim of New Zealand's health service should be to ensure that all New Zealanders are
able to pursue their individual goals and live socially and economically productive lives
without unnecessary restrictions arising from disease, illness, and physical or mental
handicap. In pursuing this aim. New Zealand's health service in the 1980s should operatate,


## p. 1651 (#107) ###########################################

27 July
1651
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
as I see it, under eight specific principles.
First, it should be recognised that the provision of professional health services is only
one of many factors relative to this aim. Today, life is significantly influenced by such things
as our use of air, water, and land, the conditions of housing and transport systems, work
places, the quality of food, and the proper use of leisure time. Hence our health services
should work to ensure that all relevant attitudes and actions in areas such as these are fully
consistent with the maintenance of good health. Secondly, since the decisions and actions of
individuals are of overwhelming importance in determining their health status, the
consumer-the person who most frequently uses the services provided for him—should be
involved in key aspects of planning and delivery of health services.
Thirdly, our health services should provide, within the resources available, and as
efficiently and effectively as possible, appropriate treatment and attention and care and
support to those people who are not in good health. Equal priority and opportunity should
be given to people with disabilities, handicaps, and restricting illnesses, who need care,
support, and rehabilitation, as opposed to those people for whom an effective cure is now
available. Fourthly, all New Zealanders in need of these services should not be denied equal
access to or use of them because of their race, religious or political beliefs, sex, wealth,
knowledge, or geographical location.
Fifthly, I am very strongly of the opinion that there should always be scope for the
operation of private and voluntary institutions and agencies-such organisations as our
Plunket Society, which does a magnificent job in the community. Sixthly, where possible,
our health services should ensure co-ordinated, consistent, comprehensive, continuous, and
effective services without unnecessary fragmentation, duplication, and imbalance.
Seventhly, where the community pays, supports, or subsidises any health service, it should
be in a position to assess these services by receiving regular reports of objectives, policies,
and performance. Eighthly, our health services should be increasingly oriented towards
preventive medicine. We need to give top priority to overcoming the avoidable accidents,
diseases, and ill health that result from modern life styles—and I include both physical and
mental ill health.
A number of problems are currently impeding the effective functioning of New
Zealand's health system in 1977. First, we have a fragmentation of delivery resulting from
lack of clear aims and priorities, no overall co-ordinated planning, and an absence of a
rational means of establishing priorities that all can accept. This leads to ineffective and
inefficient use of resources, and the provision of substandard health services in the
community. Lack of accountability of those concerned with the delivery of health services
leads to ineffective and inefficient use of resources, and probably is a factor in the escalating
cost of our health services. Health expenditure is rising considerably, with insufficient visible
benefits. The answer is not just more money by itself. The present Government is proving
that the problems of fragmentation, lack of accountability, and recognition of changing
patterns of disease and illness are not being taken into account at present, but a realistic
growth in our health services is essential, and must be accepted. We are not achieving this
today under the present Government.
Let us compare the figures in real economic growth terms. We must take account of
inflation first, before we talk of increases in expenditure. What were the percentages under
the Labour Government? In 1973-74 there was an 8.3 percent increase; in 1974-75, a 9.8
percent increase; and in 1975-76 a 6.2 percent increase. Now we come to the years of the
National Government: in 1976-77 there was a decrease in real expenditure of 1.9
percent-and I challenge any Government member to prove that statistic incorrect. In 1977-
78 that 1.9 percent decrease has been replaced with a 2.1 percent increase; in other words,
after 2 years of a National Government, the realistic growth it has determined is an increase
of only 0.2 percent. The Government's answer to the problem of costs is to dry up funds at
the source. It has done nothing to increase the allocation of health expenditure, which is the
underlying problem. There is inequitable distribution of resources and access to health care,
and no area in New Zealand suffers more in these respects than the Auckland isthmus. A
good example of this is the petition I presented today, signed by almost 9000 people. These
signatures were collected in just 2 weeks by city council officials and by all the mayors of
West Auckland. I hope the member for Waitemata signed the petition.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: I do not sign petitions.
Mr HUNT: Well, I am proud to say that I signed the petition that called for an
immediate start on stage 2 of the Waitakere Hospital, a development that, had there been a
Labour Government, would already be 1 year on the way to completion. We must provide


## p. 1652 (#108) ###########################################

1652
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
full accident and emergency services. I had a ring from a 68-year-old pensioner yesterday.
She had a broken ankle and had to go all the way from Glen Eden to Middlemore Hospital
by bus. With the very poor transport provided by the present Minister, it takes her 5 hours
for the return journey, and that is not good enough. Public health systems in Auckland are
under real stress. And what did this Government do? It allocated $1 million, in real growth
terms, for the whole of New Zealand. Auckland, with the greatest load, received the
enormously generous sum of 40c per person, equivalent to less than 20 aspirins. The west of
Auckland is worth more than that. We have inequalities in access. Insufficient account is
taken of the needs and expectations of Maori and Polynesian people. Those in the greatest
need of health care receive the least. The inverse-care law applies so well here. People with
private medical insurance can obtain quicker attention for non-acute conditions, but the
rapid growth of such schemes has aggravated deficiencies in the public sector.
What are the priorities for change? First, we must establish clear aims; secondly, we
must involve health providers and consumers in the planning of health services; thirdly,
there must be an improvement in the allocation of finance; and, fourthly, the inequalities in
the distribution of resources and access to health care must be removed. Where opinions
differ, as they obviously will, on the desirability of priority of services, these differences must
be resolved through consultation with all interested parties.
Some Government members have asked what a Labour Government would do, and
tonight I offer some practical solutions that we will be undertaking, after we are elected in
1978. A Labour Government would immediately improve the general line of communication
between medical practitioners and the Minister of Health. In addition to the channels of
communication already existing, a Labour Minister of Health would see any medical
practitioner who wished to discuss any particular problem in health services. Secondly, the
transfer of nursing education from hospital schools to technical institutes will be continued as
set out so clearly in our 1975 policy. The improvements in nursing education will mean
greater benefits to the health consumer, and the nursing profession will not be forced to
lobby for this change, as it is at present under this Government. Nurses deserve greater
consideration and recognition for their valuable contribution to health services than this
Government has shown.
Personally I look forward to the day when there is a nurse in every primary school in this
country as there used to be under the first Labour Government-a nurse who would be able
to examine young children and assess problems. I am thinking of such things as my colleague
the member for Mangere told me about-of two or three children with scabies in a school. It
is not merely a matter of fixing children's problems at school, but of nurses going to the
homes and seeing the parents so that they can discuss what needs to be done. Then the
matter can be dealt with before the problem and the expense of treating it becomes great.
Next, I should like to see a health development conference geared for 1979-80.
Hon. Michael Connelly: We will do it.
Mr HUNT: As my colleague the member for Wigram has said, that will be done by the
fourth Labour Government. It could be along the lines of other such conferences with any
person being invited to form a small discussion group. It will not be something for which
those people will be paid, but it will be something for which they will produce ideas. That is
the point of the exercise. I hope that every member of a Labour Government will pledge
himself to study and consider the recommendations. Indeed, one of the things that this
Government is not doing is providing open access of information to the public. I wonder if
members realise that the report on 2,4,5-T was not even printed. Whether or not one
disagreed or agreed with that report to the Department of Health, it should have been laid
on the table and printed.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: It was.
Mr HUNT: It was not, and that shows how little the member for Waitemata knows
about that subject. I asked a question in the House, and that is the reply I received from the
Minister. The Educational Development Conference in 1974 was highly successful, but I
think the results of that conference could be eclipsed by a health development conference
that would enable information from the consumer and from all voluntary organisations to be
effectively tapped.
We have to consider the future of such things as meals on wheels, because transport
costs have become so great today. It would be better for different areas to offer their own
solutions to suit their own areas. I believe that within the present budgetary allocation for
the Department of Health we could have a conference, receive its recommendations and be
more able to gear our health needs to meet the 1980s effectively. The end result would be a


## p. 1653 (#109) ###########################################

27 July
1653
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
New Zealand-wide consensus on the problems, the aims, the priorities, and the actions to be
taken to form a truly democratic New Zealand health service.
I now want to deal with the subject of preventive health measures. I have here a list for
study, which was arranged in conjunction with quite a number of people and organisations.
First, there is a need for personal and family hygiene-something that the provision of a
school nurse could well help towards. I am thinking also of the teaching of that subject in
schools. Secondly, there is the need for a sound basic diet. If children's prepared lunches are
uninviting, they go across the road to buy a coke and three cream buns. No wonder we have
the problems that we have at present. Again, they are problems that can be met without
spending large sums of money, but much more energy is required from the Department of
Health.
Thirdly, there is a need for adequate clothing. I put in this point because the price of
clothing has gone up since the National Government has been in power, and some children
are going to school inadequately clothed. The member for Sydenham has told me of two
young children in his young son's class in Christchurch who attend school in bare feet. The
member for Sydenham's wife is the president of the local parent-teacher association and she
has been concerned about the living conditions of some people who are not as well off as
members in this House. Theirs are the children who will not be adequately looked after in
the future.
Fourthly, there is a need for dry and clean accommodation. Members, on this side of the
House in particular, often hear about houses where people are being rack-rented and are
paying $40 or $50 a week; but, more to the point, paying up to 50 percent of their net
income. That is something we will have to look at. One of the most important measures in
preventive health care is the need for dry and clean accommodation for young people.
My fifth point relates to the need to know about and to avoid the dangers of such things
as smoking, alcohol, drug dependence, and sexual promiscuity. I suggest that schools that
show such a lack of wisdom as allowing seventh formers to have a room in a school in which
to smoke are not showing the way it should be done. That is not the type of development we
should encourage.
An Hon. Member: It's shocking.
Mr HUNT: I do not say it is shocking, but I do say that if there has to be a cutback in the
future, that is the first room I would cut out of a secondary school, and I would spend that
money on the provision of a decent library and books.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: I agree.
Mr HUNT: I am glad that the member for Waitemata agrees with me. My sixth point
relates to mental health. I think that this year's telethon has gone a long way towards
achieving that end. It means that we have adopted a common-sense approach to mental
health, and I think everyone in the House will agree with that. We have to increase public
awareness and tolerance, and we have to encourage early diagnosis and referral. My seventh
point is that we should make available comprehensive family planning and fertility services,
and advice on contraception. We have to be prepared to come to terms with these measures.
They are not earth-shaking, or new. We know of the problems, but have been unwilling to
face up to them in the past.
In my last five minutes I shall deal with community health centres. Labour believes in a
policy of decentralisation of medical and hospital services in co-operation with local
authorities, and it will continue to expand and develop community health services in those
areas of need. I noticed with interest in this afternoon's Evening Post that the Minister of
Health has been chiding a group in Upper Hutt about the cost of a community health centre
project. I want to tell the Minister of Health that I am prepared to join him in any move to
cut down expenditure, provided that no essential services are denied to people who need
them.
The services available should be as wide as personnel and facilities will allow. There
should be eventual encouragement of salaried career people to operate such centres, the
idea being that all in the community can regard the community health centre in the same way
as they regard the post office or the local school. Everyone in New Zealand goes to the post
office once or twice a week. Why should people not be able to go into a community health
centre staffed by general practitioners, practice nurses, social welfare and psychiatric
officers, and health education officers, and having pharmaceutical dispensaries, diagnostic
and X-ray services, dental services, family planning services, and home aid services? I do not
suggest that all of this should be under the umbrella of the Government, but where there is
evidence of need the Government should provide the services and encourage some entre-


## p. 1654 (#110) ###########################################

1654
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
preneur to come in, guaranteeing him a good living if he is prepared to work. In the more
scattered communities where collective need is not as great, mobile X-rays, and a mobile
unit on similar lines to the blood bank system, could be established in main regional
development centres.
We were told that expenditure on community health would be increased by the amount
of money received from the levy of lc on tobacco and alcohol. I heard the Minister of
Finance say that would bring in $27 million, and my first thought was that that was a good
sum. But I now find that out of the $27 million only $4.075 million will be spent on
community health. The other $23 million will be paid to wealthy people over the age of 60,
who do not need the money, and this will deny many pensioners the rights and privileges
they were given by the Labour Government. Of the total $806 million expenditure shown in
the estimates, only half of 1 percent will go towards National's much vaunted community
health services. This is one of the greatest broken promises of all time. It is another broken
promise from a broken-down Government that is half way towards defeat. I am certain that
after the next election Labour will be sitting on the other side of the House, because the
National Government came to power with glittering promises that it has not been able to
fulfil. It has helped its own friends to an excessive degree, and that is not in the best interests
of the country.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti): It was refreshing to see the member for New Lynn coming to the
realisation that he is the Opposition spokesman on health. It is a role we have not seen him
in during the past 18 months and, when he did finally adopt it, it was also refreshing to hear
him read out most of the 1975 National Party policy and a great deal of the matter that has
been heard in recent speeches of the Minister of Health. I find myself in the pleasant position
of being in full agreement with much of the material the member used. Of course, it is
difficult to agree with his figures, and, without checking them, I should have thought that it
was an easy calculation to establish that, if a vote has moved down 1.9 percent in one year,
when it moves up 2.1 percent the following year it is moving up as a percentage of a different
base. Despite that, the member was able to find the difference by subtracting one figure
from the other, and he finds that there has been an overall increase in real terms of 0.2
percent.
That there has been an increase in real terms is a matter on which the Minister of Health
should be congratulated. That increase is not just to keep pace with inflation, but it goes
beyond inflation-and it has taken place in the midst of a serious recession. It has also taken
place at a time when we have seen a reduction in real terms of overall Government
expenditure. Most votes must naturally be reduced in real terms when overall Government
spending is reduced in real terms, but the health vote has not. This establishes health as a
high-priority area for this Government, and I believe that was conceded by the member for
New Lynn.
The member then went on to talk about community health centres. He was loath to give
the previous National Government any credit for introducing health centres, which were not
advanced under the Labour Government. Labour's approach was one not of community
health but of communalised health, and people will remember only too well the now
infamous white paper, which recommended socialising medicine right down to the level of
the general practitioner. It is regrettable that the member for New Lynn is quite unrepen-
tant, as tonight he has merely mentioned a few disciplines-I think he included pharmacy—
which do not need to come under direct Government control. Apart from that, it appears
that the Opposition has no intention of departing from the principles laid down in the white
paper.
The final point made by the member for New Lynn was that he could find in the
estimates a figure of only $4.075 million for community health. It is quite obvious that the
member cannot find figures unless they are clearly labelled in large letters "this is for
community health". He has taken no account of the amounts provided for works, subsidies,
grants, staff, and all the other parts of the Health vote that make up the overall figure, which
is an increase in real terms. No doubt he will have the opportunity later to find out precisely
where the moneys have been spent, but it is not open to him to suggest that, because he can
find only one label, a sum of not more than $4.075 million is being expended on community
health.
The member for New Lynn also took up the refrain we heard earlier from the Leader of
the Opposition, that the Budget does little to decrease the rate of inflation. I suggest that is
precisely what the Budget does-and the most important figure in the Budget is the deficit
before, borrowing. When the National Government took office that figure was $1,200


## p. 1655 (#111) ###########################################

27 July
1655
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
million. With the removal of subsidies and other unpopular steps taken early in its term, the
Government reduced the figure to $1,002 million. But that was the figure carried forward
from the Labour Government. The deficit of $1,002 million has been reduced by two-thirds
in 20 months, and that is what has been hailed as the Muldoon economic miracle. This
Budget provides for a deficit of $382 million, which, taken as a percentage of gross national
product, is the lowest we have seen since the National Government's 1971 Budget. It is
surprising that the Leader of the Opposition, despite the fact that for 18 months he was the
Minister of Finance, does not know that the reduction of the deficit before borrowing is a
counter-inflationary measure of very real effect.
This Budget has several major objectives. It sets out blueprints for the future in the very
important fields of energy, transport, and exports-particularly in fishing. I want to refer to
transport, and I thank the Minister of Transport for his consideration of submissions made
by members for both Auckland and Wellington areas, in particular those which are served by
commuter rail services. I particularly thank him for the $44 million granted for the
replacement of rolling stock on suburban rail services. Most of that money will come to
Wellington, and a large part of it will go to commuter trains on the Porirua to Paraparaumu
rail link-a lifeline of considerable importance to my electorate.
Generally, this has been a popular Budget, and it has been well received by the people
interviewed by the media and, I am sure, by people who have been in touch with members of
the House. That being so, it is probably most helpful to look at the two main areas where the
Budget has been attacked. It has been attacked for failing to reduce the overall level of
income tax. Provision is made for an increase of 26.2 percent, which was claimed to be a
record in the current affairs programmes of both TV1 and TV2. I have no idea why it should
be called a record. Three years ago, when the Labour Government presented its second
Budget, the figure was higher than that, and 4 years ago, when it presented its first Budget,
the figure was a record as well. In its first 2 years, the previous Labour Government
succeeded in increasing tax by more than 55 percent. Its first Budget increased tax by 29.2
percent. It should be stressed that, although the figure this year may sound like a high
percentage, it is lower than that achieved by Labour in either of its first 2 years in office; and
the first 2 years of the National Government have seen taxes increased at a lower rate than
during the first 2 years of the last Labour Government. The Labour Government's first
Budget in 1973 included the highest tax increases the country had seen since the first Budget
of the second Labour Government in 1958, in which a record increase of 31.9 percent was
achieved. Of course, that Budget has always been known as the "black" Budget.
Although some of these figures are historical, I quote them to bring home the point that
the National Party has always been known as a low-tax party in comparison with the
socialists. It is a fundamental view of the National Party that the people are better able to
decide how to spend their funds than the Government. The fundamental view of the
socialists is that they know better than the people and can spend the money better than the
people.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: Why did the Government take $300 million more than it needed?
Mr BRILL: The member for Heretaunga surely knows there was a deficit last year. He
asks why the National Government took $200 million extra. I think he said $300 million, but
it was $200 million more in income tax than was budgeted. Last year the deficit was $800
million, so the Government needed $800 million. It managed to obtain $300 million by very
sound administration. That brought the deficit down to $506 million. I trust the member for
Heretaunga will congratulate the Prime Minister on the management that achieved that
reduction in the deficit. The deficit was too high. The figures were based on the tax tables
carried through from the Labour Government, and they were settled by the Deputy Leader
of the Opposition in 1975.
As I have said, the National Party is a low-tax party. The Government would like to
reduce taxes even further, and no doubt it will when circumstances permit. I shall now focus
on what inhibits that opportunity at present. Why is it not possible to reduce taxes further
this year? I can give the answer in two words-Labour's deficit. The deficit before borrowing
was $1,000 million. A deficit before borrowing means that the money has to be raised the
following year to pay back what was borrowed. It means money is being spent that has not
been collected in taxes, or spending in advance the money that will be collected the following
year. The Government had to carry over $1,000 million that the Labour Government had
spent but did not have. The Government had to obtain this money when it came into office.
If the Labour Government had balanced the books in 1975-76 and the Government had
had that $1,000 million available, it could have paid for a 33 percent tax cut across the board


## p. 1656 (#112) ###########################################

1656
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
this year. It is nonsense for Opposition members to say there would have been massive
unemployment. The country has experienced a further recession in its terms of trade, yet the
Government has been able to run the country in such a way that the deficit this year is down
to $382 million. That represents a very substantial reduction in the $1,200 million that was
aimed at, and the $1,000 million the Government actually picked up, after the Labour
Government's efforts. It is incredible that the Leader of the Opposition and other Opposi-
tion members criticised the Government for not giving more money away, when the
Government had to find that $1,000 million out of taxes last year. It is incredible that they
can denounce the efforts of the Government in trying to find the money to cover the deficit
they created.
Despite the limitations on the relief that could be given, because of the deficit,
considerable reductions have still been seen. The first was the abolition of the superannua-
tion tax. For a person on the average wage-and throughout this speech I propose to refer to
the person who earns the average income-that tax would now have amounted to $3.53 a
week, or 14 percent of the total income tax he now pays. The Government has given the man
on an average wage a cut in tax by taking away the superannuation tax. That tax would have
been matched by his employer, so the Government would have been drawing $366 a year for
every member of the compulsory superannuation scheme. If the scheme had had 1 000 000
members the Government would have collected about $360 million. The Opposition now
likes to argue that national superannuation has used up the people's taxes. The amount
provided for national superannuation is $160 million, or less than one-sixth of the deficit
burden left by the Labour Government. The Government had to find the other five-sixths of
the deficit as well. The Opposition contends that the tax burden is caused by the $160 million
used for national superannuation. That amount is substantially less than that of the
superannuation tax the Government has given back to the people by abolishing the Labour
Government's superannuation scheme.
Some money has been made available to reduce taxation, and relief of $85 million has
been homed in to the area of greatest need, the single-income families. This does not apply
only to the low-income families. The maximum saving applies up to an income level of
$7,800 a year, and then the rebate diminishes up to the level of $11,440 a year. A family with
a single income of more than $11,000 still receives some benefit. The new rebate of $4 a
week applies to all single-income families with children under the age of 10. I refer
specifically to page 40 of the Budget, which states: "Married taxpayers with a child under 5
years who qualify for both rebates will pay no tax if their taxable incomes are less than $82.63
a week. At present they would pay tax if their taxable incomes exceeded $57.65 a week. If
their taxable incomes are between $80 and $180, their after-tax incomes will be increased by
between 8 and 12.5 percent." That figure represents a substantial tax-free increase, and is
therefore better than a wage increase. After-tax incomes are increased by between 8 percent
and 12.5 percent on an income up to $9,000 a year. The Government's priority has been the
family, the area of greatest need. If one looks at the combined effects of last year's Budget
and this year's Budget, one finds that the family man on the average wage has had his tax
reduced from 21 percent of his income in 1975, when the present Deputy Leader of the
Opposition was the Minister of Finance, to 16 percent now. His taxation has been reduced
by one-quarter as a result of the two rebates introduced in the last 2 years for families with
children under the age of 5.
The Labour Party is critical and implies that it would have done better. It is significant
that, when the Leader of the Opposition was asked on television what the Labour Party
would have done-and I am speaking about both the programmes that appeared on Budget
night he became very shifty and evasive, and had no particular answer except that the
Labour Party would review the whole structure of taxation.
Mr O'Brien: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Is it in order for the member for Kapiti to
use such an expression as, "The Leader of the Opposition became shifty"? Is that a
parliamentary expression, or is it an expression that is typical of the member for Kapiti?
Mr SPEAKER: I need hardly say that, in introducing emotive matter when raising a
point of order, the member himself was quite out of order. Sarcasm should have no place in
the raising and discussing of points of order. As to the matter itself, I think that if I were to
rule the word "shifty" as unparliamentary it would be limiting our vocabulary pretty
severely. If the word "shifty" necessarily implies dishonesty and necessarily implies wilful
deceit, then it would be, in accordance with our custom, unparliamentary. It is not a pleasant
term, but I think its connotation is mild enough for me to hesitate to rule it as unparliamen-
tary. I shall give it some thought. In the meantime, I do not think I should, just offhand, add


## p. 1657 (#113) ###########################################

27 July
1657
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
to our already large store of silent vocabulary, as it were.
Mr BRILL: I shall content myself with saying that the Leader of the Opposition was
unable or unwilling to answer a question as to what a Labour Government would do, except
to say that it would review the whole taxation structure. What ominous meaning lies behind
that? What new structure would a Labour Government build? Would it bring in money from
other sources? Being a socialist Government, it might “soak the rich”. Statistics show that
only 9000 people in New Zealand have incomes of over $20,000, so by adding a further tax of
$1,000 on those 9000 people a Labour Government would receive only another $9 million.
That would not go far towards easing the burden on the middle-income earner.
So the money would have to come from some other source. Would it be some new tax?
Would it be a sales tax? On Thursday night the Opposition was prepared to debate until after
midnight a suggestion for a very slight tax on beer and tobacco. If members opposite are not
prepared to tax those luxuries, what sales taxes do they propose? It seems that the answer
might lie elsewhere. A wealth tax was proposed at the Labour Party conference. My
predecessor, the previous member for Kapiti, also made it clear that he at least was in favour
of the introduction of a capital gains tax, and I think several Opposition members have
supported such a tax. In his television appearance on Budget night, the Leader of the
Opposition also gave a very broad hint that he was considering a value-added tax. I ask
Opposition members if that is the full list. Are they proposing to introduce only a wealth tax,
a capital gains tax, a value-added tax, and a sales tax? Would there be any more taxes?
Would they increase land tax? Would they increase estate duty? I imagine they would. How
much revenue would a Labour Government expect to raise from those taxes?
Members opposite claim to be Her Majesty's Opposition. They claim to be the
alternative Government. Why are they not up on their feet putting alternatives before the
public and before the House for consideration? The National Government has set out in the
Budget what it believes should be done in financial management this year. Labour members
have said they would restructure everything, but they are not prepared to tell us what they
would do. It is a secret. If they propose to introduce a whole host of new taxes and believe
that to be the right thing to do, they should have sufficient confidence in their proposals to
spell them out in the House and advocate their adoption now.
The member for Manukau maligned the housing provisions in the Budget. Last night he
showed his extraordinary facility for using figures without using facts. One of his most
staggering statements was that the expansionary Budget of 1972 caused record increases of
over 100 percent in house prices in 1973 and 1974, under his management of the Housing
portfolio. The 1972 Budget was intended to be expansionary. There was a deficit of $206
million. The following year, when things were expanding perhaps a little too fast,
dampening-down measures should have been taken, but instead the deficit was increased to
$242 million in the 1973 Budget. Yet the member for Manukau said that the expansionary
Budget of 1972 caused the explosive price increases of 1973 and 1974.
Like the media, the member has grossly underrated the Buget's effect on housing. Four
relatively minor and four really major provisions are contained in an eight-point package in
the Budget. I shall deal first with the minor matters. First, the outgoings of every home
owner will decrease by about 50c a week as a result of the rates rebate. It is not a major
thing, but the significant beginning of what I believe to be a just system—that rates should
become fully tax-deductible. Secondly, a grant of approximately $300 will be made to every
first-home buyer who buys a used house, by exempting such a purchase from stamp duty.
Thirdly, Housing Corporation loans are again available for single people. Fourthly, Housing
Corporation loans are available for farm workers or others in tied accommodation, even if
they do not propose to live in the home financed by the corporation. Those are four
relatively minor housing matters.
There have also been some very important changes which will have a significant impact
on the whole housing scene, and on the building industry in particular. The first is that
interest rates on Housing Corporation loans have been slashed.
Mr Rogers: They have been increased to 8.5 percent.
Mr BRILL: The member for Onehunga believes they have been increased to 8.5
percent. The prime rate has been increased to 8.5 percent, and that rate is reached when the
person who receives a loan has an income of more than $8,300. If he is an average person
with two children he has to reach $8,840-nearly $9,000. I ask the member for Onehunga
how many people he knows who have an income of over $9,000 and who have been granted
Housing Corporation loans. Like the member for Manukau and so many Opposition
members, he has failed to do his homework and to appreciate that 8.5 percent does not


## p. 1658 (#114) ###########################################

1658
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
become relevant until a person has an income of at least $8,300, and up to $9,000. I believe
that most New Zealanders would think that a person with an income of $9,000 should pay
market rates of interest. In fact, such a person is asked to pay not market interest rates but
only 8.5 percent. Under the Labour Government, people on such incomes would not have
received loans at all, because strict income limits were set very much lower. For the average
person with an income of about $130 a week and two children, interest rates have been
dropped from 7.5 percent to 5 percent-cut by one-third by this Budget.
Secondly, a further $35 million has been released from savings banks. That is a very
substantial amount. I suggest that the member for Manukau is altogether too cavalier about
these very large figures. In the last few months, a total of $73 million has been released for
additional mortgages. If those mortgages averaged $20,000 each—and I suggest the average
is likely to be less than that-this measure alone would finance 3650 additional homes over
and above the provision made by the Labour Government. The Labour Government did not
encourage house mortgages from the private sector, so not enough help came from that
direction during its administration.
Thirdly, and most importantly, a direct lending scheme allows tax-deductible interest
for people lending on either a first or second mortgage, provided it is guaranteed by the
Housing Corporation. In my opinion, that is about the most important housing policy
introduced by any Government in the past decade. In an inflationary period, small savers are
naturally looking for the best possible return on their funds, but they are interested only in
safe securities. A person who lends $3,000 at 10 percent retains $300 tax-paid return. If the
interest were taxable, a person on an average income would have to charge 16.6 percent to
obtain the same return after tax. That would be the result if the lender's taxable income was
above $110 per week-a relatively low income. Under this measure, an investor will still get
the equivalent of 16.6 percent.
However, if the investor has a taxable income of $12,000 per annum, the return he will
receive under this measure would equal an interest rate of 20 percent per annum-lent at 10
percent it would be equal to an interest rate of 20 percent. What other opportunities do small
savers have to earn rates of 16.5 percent to 20 percent? Certainly, there is no similar
opportunity on an investment that is totally gilt-edged. These loans are safer than Govern-
ment stock. They have the guarantee of the New Zealand Government, and there is a
mortgage of real estate thrown in. I am satisfied that every solicitor, accountant, and other
adviser, once he is aware of these terms, will advise clients that no better investment exists.
What better way is there to create a massive influx into private housing loans?
Mr Prebble: It won't produce houses.
Mr BRILL: And that, in answer to the member for Auckland Central, is how it will help
the house mortgage market. It will also be noticed that the best return is available for the
small parcels. This package is ideal for second mortgages. The beauty of the scheme is that
second mortgages are also gilt-edged, as the Housing Corporation will guarantee anything
up to 90 percent of valuation. The home owner pays 10 percent interest on the second
mortgage, but the lender receives the equivalent of a 20 percent return on his investment.
The Government takes up the balance by way of tax forgone. It is a high interest return with
negligible risk-the best investment available.
Fourthly, I refer to the vendor mortgage scheme, which is directed at existing dwellings
that are under utilised. The measure provided in the Budget will lead to a much more
economic use of existing housing stocks. The incentives are similar to the direct lending
scheme I have just mentioned, but are aimed at first mortgages; the equivalent interest
returns, tax paid, range from 13.3 percent for lenders with an income of $6,000 to 15 percent
for lenders with an income of $12,000. Again, absolute security is assured by a Government
guarantee through the Housing Corporation.
This eight-point package constitutes the greatest single stimulant ever offered to the
New Zealand building industry. All that is required now is that its ramifications be fully
publicised and understood. The industry itself is obsessed with the terms of loans from the
Housing Corporation. It should look beyond this to the larger field of building, to the less
restricted area financed by the private sector. I know that builders have been hard hit by the
recession of the past 3 years, which has struck particularly heavily in growth areas like
Auckland, and in boom areas in my own electorate such as Whitby, Paraparaumu, and
Waikanae. I address myself to those people in particular when I say that the Budget marks
the end of the dark ages. Some little time will pass before full realisation dawns that the
Government has now made housing the most attractive investment available. This realisa-
tion must ensure a steadily increasing flow of funds into the vitally important housing area.


## p. 1659 (#115) ###########################################

27 July
1659
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori): Anyone listening to the member for Kapiti would be
either amused or bitterly disappointed at some of his remarks, particularly when he tried to
explain away the Government's inability to give relief from the record massive tax take.
Hon. David Thomson: The Labour tax rates.
Hon. M. RATA: The Minister of Justice says that they are the Labour tax rates. The
member for Kapiti went to great pains to explain why it was simply not possible to ease the
burden on the average taxpayer, and to remove the disincentives to increased production if
the tax burden continues. If you are a property speculator, you are exempted completely
from the payment of a tax that has amounted to more than $1 million in the last 4 years. The
member shakes his head. I draw his attention to page 48 of the Budget, where it is clearly set
out that in the last 4 years more than $1 million was paid by property speculators. All I can
take from his remarks, and from the actions of the Government, is that they are interested in
housing the people not only because it will provide a fair investment, but because the
speculators will once more have the run they enjoyed before the Labour Government took
action.
Mr Brill: Are they doing it now?
Hon. M. RATA: The member asks whether they are doing it now. The Government can
provide no exemption for those whose only asset is their labour, but it can find time to
exempt property speculators from taxation.
I shall refer to the claim that the Budget is counter-inflationary. I am sure most people
need no reminder that the Prime Minister on numerous occasions in 1975 made great play on
the fact that he would restore inflation to a one-digit figure within 12 months of taking office.
The fulfilment of that promise is as far away as it can be. He has forgotten about it, but I am
sure it is worth reminding members opposite about it.
Mr Brill: What's your authority?
Hon. M. RATA: The honourable member will just have to take my word for it. I am
sure we do not need the authority, as I am also sure that I quote the Prime Minister and his
colleagues correctly. That impression was left not only with me but with many other people
who took the promise seriously. That is all I have to say about that remark, but I was
concerned that the member's main interest in housing was from the point of view of
investment. According to the honourable member, the people's whims and needs in housing
have to provide firstly and basically for investment.
I return to the matter before us, namely, the Budget, and I should like to deal with it as
my colleagues have done this evening. It is an itsy-bitsy document, with an itsy-bitsy
approach. It ignores the fundamental problems facing New Zealand. If members examine
the index they will find that it lists more than 186 items, and that in itself clearly indicates
that at least an attempt was made to please a wide section of the community. In miserable
times like these there ought to be some pleasure, and some of its moves will undoubtedly be
welcome. That approach further indicates that we can expect further mini-Budgets in the
very near future; that is the style the Minister of Finance uses in introducing the punitive
measures that need to be taken sooner or later. This Budget provides areas in which there is
accord, but the real needs will probably be met later by further Government action.
There is little in the Budget to ease the burden on the greatest section of the people.
People are suffering at present; there is no question about that. The Budget entrenches the
records already held by the National Government: record levels of inflation, record prices
and cost of living, record levels of overseas borrowing, record levels of industrial discord,
record levels of emigration, and, of course, record levels of taxation. It appears that the
Budget's provisions will most likely move some of these records upwards, but will do little
for most people. We should ask ourselves if this document, and the others that have been
promised, will make New Zealand the way we want it. Hardly. That catch cry has long gone,
and it represents nothing that people could have expected. Many features of the Budget will
undoubtedly be welcomed by those who will be directly affected.
As usual, it has its economic jargon, but I want to draw attention to the area of real
concern: the present social conditions in New Zealand. I know that members, when
travelling round the country, will find that most people readily concede that New Zealand is
now faced with economic difficulties and uncertainties. Everybody knows that, and every-
body has to some extent accepted that view. I believe that people also want to know what
they personally can do about it, and what their responsibilities are. The Budget concludes
with an endeavour to encourage that objective, but it is my firm view that people would like
to do something, and to be able to achieve the improvements that everyone seems to be
confident he is capable of achieving.


## p. 1660 (#116) ###########################################

1660
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
What can they do about it? As members know, more than 24 000 people have already
done something about it. They have found it easier to purchase an airline ticket and leave the
country. Now the Government proposes to go around the globe seeking further immigrants
from South Africa, Japan, and other countries. I should like the Minister of Immigration to
explain exactly what is meant by this request for immigrants. Are reports of this correct? It is
important to us. If any attempt is being made to draw people back, why cannot the
Government follow the course adopted by the third Labour Government of bringing back
New Zealanders first? There are 24 000 of them, mostly in Australia; and most are skilled
persons who should not have been lost in the first instance, but were lost as a result of the
Government's actions.
People are also being made miserable by a feeling of depression and uncertainty; they
are reminded nightly that thousands are worried and confused. I believe that, at times like
this, a negative approach should not be adopted in the Budget. What is needed is something
positive and encouraging, and one would expect to find this in the Budget. It is lacking in
priorities and in direction. It falls hardest on those whose only asset is their labour.
In an interview with Asia Week on 7 February, when asked what he was doing—and I
presume the discussion was about the New Zealand economy-the Prime Minister is
reported as saying: "What I am doing at the moment, literally, is endeavouring to reduce the
standard of living of the people". I believe that remark was extremely serious, but it is not
until one examines the effect or the success of that policy that one begins to realise that he
was far too serious. In late June this year I drew the attention of the House to the plight
faced by many people in Northland at present. I pointed out that, as a result of surveys taken
by Northland people, about 10 000 Northlanders lived in social and economic poverty
comparable to that of the Third World. That claim was made by a well-known medical
practitioner in Kaitaia.
That in itself should have been serious enough, but what is the situation in practice? The
social effects of the absence of positive policies have fallen heavily, and with disastrous
results on the people of Northland. The average wage for those people is $4,340 a year, as an
officer of the Northland regional planning department said at a meeting in Kaitaia last
weekend. The average New Zealand wage is $5,100, so the average wage in Northland is 25
percent lower than that for the rest of New Zealand. In fact, in one part of Northland, at the
bottom of the scale, the average wage in the Hokianga county was $2,370. It is unbelievable
that the average annual income of anyone could be $2,370.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: What did the member do about it when the Labour Government
was in power.
Hon. M. RATA: If I had known about it when I was Minister, I should most certainly
have done something. That drop in annual incomes has occurred during the past 18 months.
The Minister should be the first to express concern for the people in Northland, and should
join in the efforts to improve the situation. Members will recall my asking the Government
to declare Northland a special development area, but what did the Attorney-General do? He
asked what the third Labour Government had done. In 1975, the vote for regional
development for Northland was $300,000, but the next year, when the National Government
took office, the vote was reduced to $3,000.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: We didn't bribe the electors.
Hon. M. RATA: How many seats did the Labour Government have in Northland at the
time?
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: One too many.
Hon. M. RATA: It held the seats of Whangarei and Northern Maori. The people of
Northland would not have expected the Attorney-General to say that the Labour Govern-
ment had tried to bribe the people of that area. The position in Northland is serious, but
what did the Budget do to correct the problem? All its economic jargon means nothing to
families that are forced to live on low incomes. The people of Northland do not want charity
from the rest of New Zealand. Northland has the resources and the labour force, but has not
received the recognition or assistance one could have expected from the National Govern-
ment. Members opposite have been in the House long enough to know that no one in New
Zealand should be expected to live on such a low income. The Government should proceed
forthwith to declare Northland a special development area, and urgently promote improved
social and economic conditions.
This is not the first approach made to the Government. In February last my colleagues
and I toured Northland, after which representations were made to the Minister of Social
Welfare. What did he do? He advised me he was setting up a committee. An approach was


## p. 1661 (#117) ###########################################

27 July
1661
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
made to the Minister of Forests about the future afforestation needs of Northland. Again, a
negative reply was received, with little encouragement. An approach made to the Minister of
Transport was also rebuffed, as was that made to the Minister of Works and Development.
Is it any wonder that the people of Hokianga are reduced to living on $2,300 a year? It is
totally unjust that we should have people who are poverty stricken, by New Zealand
standards. New Zealand's economic life began in Northland with the rape of the kauri trees,
but that area has been reduced in 1977 to one in which people have the lowest incomes. I
trust that the Budget will provide the necessary funds to help the people concerned.
The Maori people and other minority groups have faced cuts which I believe are totally
unwarranted. Only yesterday, Mr Justice Speight mentioned the difficulties Island people
are having in New Zealand. However, only $3,000 is provided in the estimates for the
welfare of Islanders in New Zealand. Last year the Government could spend only $2,000.
Where are the Government's priorities and interests? Is it any wonder that Mr Justice
Speight had strong comments to make? In the same appropriations, the mentality of the
Government is shown up. With the increased social pressures and demands being faced by
the community, one would have expected an increase in the welfare staff of the Department
of Maori Affairs. However, there has been a reduction in welfare staff but an increase in
administration staff-in other words, the Government has increased the number of adminis-
trators to administer the cutbacks. How ridiculous can one get? Is it any wonder that the
people are angry and deeply concerned, when the total number of staff in the department's
welfare services, a most important and sensitive area, has been reduced? That cannot
continue. The National Party conference, to which I referred in a notice of motion, showed
its total absence of interest, because not one Maori remit was submitted.
Mr Wetere: How many?
Hon. M. RATA: None, except one based on an opinion expressed at the Labour Party
conference. My word, the National Party conference would have been welcome to half of the
97 remits at the meeting of the Maori Advisory Council and the Labour Party. On television
we witnessed the Minister of Maori Affairs lecturing his own conference. That was a bold
and courageous move, supported by the Minister of Education. It is an encouraging sign that
both Ministers recognise the need in this most sensitive area. Their colleagues were-
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Too busy bashing the Labour Party.
Hon. M. RATA: That is right; the Prime Minister was bashing the Labour Party, and
blaming it for everything. No wonder it was necessary for the Minister to lecture the
conference on this urgent need. I sincerely hope that the Attorney-General, who is trying to
interject, will take a more personal and committed interest, because the Prime Minister has
no hesitation in taking full advantage of the claims made about New Zealand's racial
harmony when he goes around the world. No one would disagree with that in general
principle, but where is the effort so that the credit can be justly claimed? It is high time that
the Government did something about the claims which have been so frequently and freely
made in the name of New Zealand. If something was done, we could avoid the suffering of
both the Maori and non-Maori people in Northland.
I join the member for New Lynn in his praise for the efforts of the public in respect of
mental health and the telethon, which provided an opportunity for public involvement.
Mental health is becoming increasingly a matter of concern to the Maori people. The socio-
economic disparity between Maori and non-Maori people is graphically illustrated in
education, income, accommodation, and crime statistics. In the past we have tended to take
comfort in the fact that the Maori way of life—the family, the way in which they see things,
and the way in which they respond-has provided a form of psychological protection against
the stresses caused by social factors.
However, if that has been so in the past, it is no longer valid. It is now evident that the
Maori people are just as susceptible to the strains of modern society as other New
Zealanders, and possibly more so, because in the last decade the rate of psychiatric illness
has increased much more sharply among Maoris than among non-Maoris. This used to be a
matter of considerable pride, but between 1963 and 1974, first-time admissions of Maoris to
mental hospitals rose by a staggering 42.1 percent. The increase has occurred in all age
groups. Since the mid-1960s, the admission rate of middle-aged Maoris and those over 60
years old has climbed until it is now equal to that of non-Maoris.
But perhaps the most frightening figures are those for Maoris aged between 10 and 30,
where admission rates now are substantially higher than those for non-Maoris. In other
words, our young people are increasingly unable to cope with the present life style of New
Zealand society. For example, in 1974, the latest year for which statistics are available, 535


## p. 1662 (#118) ###########################################

1662
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Maoris per 100 000 in that age group were admitted. The equivalent for non-Maoris was 371.
This means that, for every five young non-Maoris who went into mental hospitals, seven
young Maoris were admitted. Examination of the reasons for admittance reveal some
interesting trends. Maori women are most likely to be admitted for depression or
neurosis-the traditional suburban housewife neurosis-while men are most likely to be
admitted for alcohol-related disorders.
Mr W. R. Austin: What are you talking about? I cannot hear you.
Hon. M. RATA: I am talking about the growing rate of disorders at present. I am sure
the honourable member will be worried about it; I hope he will use his influence and
persuasive manner to get his Cabinet colleagues to do something about it. Two members
have indicated that they cannot hear me. If they could take this paper and go to the back-
room boys and write some remits, it might help.
Mr W. R. Austin: We did that last year.
Hon. M. RATA: All I can say to the member for Awarua is that it would help greatly if
he would use his persuasive manner to draw the attention of his colleagues to this problem.
The Budget is a challenge. I believe New Zealanders will accept such a challenge, but
they will not be fooled about with by the National Government. At present, Government
members are sitting comfortably in the knowledge of their majority in the House, but they
may well have cause to ponder their complacency in the very near future. Certainly, they
should do so, because their consciences must tell them that they should shake the Govern-
ment out of its lethargy and, in fact, remove the dead wood, as they have been called upon to
do by the younger members of the National Party.
If the document now before us is an indication of the steps being taken by the
Government, clearly the New Zealand people are in for a more miserable time than I believe
is warranted. The member for Awarua and his back-bench colleagues should be the first to
admit that it is absolutely essential that the Budget makes provision to meet the needs of the
people. In this Budget the Government has taken more tax than it really needs, and has even
introduced a tax for community health. An amount of $20 million is to be collected,
apparently for no purpose whatever. What is it planned to do with that money? The member
for Awarua could advise the Minister of Health about where to spend that and other funds to
be provided by the Budget. They should be used for the very purposes I have just
mentioned. I hope they will be, but in the Budget I see no real provision to meet the social
needs of our people. The document before us indicates the usual style of the Minister of
Finance; and it is our earnest hope that the exposition carried out by Opposition members
will do much to lessen the hardships and burdens so needlessly placed upon New Zealanders.
Mr LUXTON (Piako): The member for Northern Maori spent his time talking about
anything and everything but the Budget. He was very concerned that no remits relating to
the Maori people were presented at the recent National Party conference. I point out that at
that conference remit after remit affecting all New Zealanders was presented and consi-
dered. We had remits on taxation, and I remind him that the Maoris are taxpayers just as the
Europeans are taxpayers. The conference considered remits on housing, and housing surely
affects the Maori people in the same way it affects Europeans. Remits on education and
social needs, affecting both races, were also considered. There is no doubt at all that the
National Government has the interests of the Maoris at heart.
The member for Northern Maori called the document before us an its-bitsy Budget. It is
a very imaginative Budget, with a tremendous amount in it. I have not counted, but the
member for Northern Maori indicated that it covers 186 items. Certainly, the Budget is very
far-reaching and implements many of the policies on which the National Party went to the
people in 1975. That was the best manifesto ever prepared and presented before an election.
Mr Hunt: Which one?
Mr LUXTON: The 1975 National Party manifesto, the blue booklet. It was the most
comprehensive manifesto any party has ever presented to the people of New Zealand. It was
with those policies in mind that many of the items in the Budget were prepared. The 1976
Budget implemented many policy points, and in the latest Budget we are fulfilling other
promises on which we went to the people at the last election.
The member for Northern Maori spoke of records that had been established. The
Leader of the Opposition also made a similar reference to those records. Both referred to
what they called the record borrowing by the National Government. I should have thought
that Opposition members would be the last people to criticise borrowing. When the former
Labour Government assumed office it inherited a very sound economic position. In 1972 the
gross annual cost of servicing our overseas debt amounted to $77 million, but by 1975, after


## p. 1663 (#119) ###########################################

27 July
1663
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the Labour Government's borrowing spree, that gross cost had risen to $192 million. In
1976, when we felt the full impact of the borrowing undertaken during the 3 years of the
Labour Government, the gross cost of servicing our overseas indebtedness amounted to $305
million. While it is true that the National Government has borrowed overseas since taking
office, over half its total drawings between December 1975 and March 1977 have been used
to repay loans, often at interest rates lower than those agreed to by the previous Labour
Government. This Government, with its efficient management of the economy, has been
given a triple A rating in world money markets.
Both the Leader of the Opposition and the member for Northern Maori referred to the
Government's generous national superannuation scheme. Apparently members opposite
conveniently forget that, had a Labour Government still been in power, employees and
employers would each have been paying a compulsory 2.5 percent into Labour's superannu-
ation scheme, the levy to be increased to 4 percent on each of the parties. A 2.5 percent levy
on the average male wage, including overtime, of $141.27 would have amounted to $3.53,
which, matched by the employer's contribution of $3.53, would have made a total contribu-
tion of $7.06 each week, or $367 each year. Every cent of that contribution would have gone
into the cost of goods produced, and the consumer would ultimately have had to meet
this indirect taxation to provide for a superannuation scheme from which he would receive
no gain until well into the future. The Government's national superannuation scheme,
expensive as it is to run, is certainly less expensive than the Labour Government's
superannuation scheme would have been.
The Leader of the Opposition and the member for Northern Maori spoke, too, of the
record level of inflation, apparently forgetting the Labour Government's performance: 5.5
percent inflation in 1972; 10 percent in 1973; 12.6 percent in 1974; and 15.7 percent in 1975.
Mr Lithgow: How much?
Mr LUXTON: The Labour Government, which predicted it would knock inflation for
six, by its mismanagement increased the inflation rate from 5.5 percent in 1972 to 15.7
percent in 1975. The National Government has tried to arrest inflation. In 1976 it was able to
reduce the rate of inflation fractionally on that of the previous year. The Leader of the
Opposition spent some time in talking about inflation and about how much of it had been
imported under the Labour Government. He quoted the figures for 1974 and 1975 when
speaking about the increased costs of our imports. It is true that inflation moved up very
substantially then but Opposition members need to be reminded of the time lag in overseas
inflation coming into the New Zealand economy. Every factory has stock, and with the way
the terms of trade were operating, the higher prices in 1975 had a great bearing on the cost of
living in 1976. So, in fact, the Leader of the Opposition was actually arguing about high
inflation last year. He forgot about this time lag. Energy is our most recent problem, and we
are trying to sort it out. It should be remembered that much of the increase in the consumer
price index has been related to energy.
Both the member for Northern Maori and the Leader of the Opposition spoke about the
Government's record in emigration, and I think the member for Northern Maori suggested
that 24 000 people had left the country. It is true that we have had an outward flow, but it is
also true that as many New Zealanders left the country in 1974 and 1975. The big difference
is that, during those years thousands of unskilled workers came into the country. In my own
electorate, many people from Britain, the United States, and other areas would have liked to
remain in New Zealand, but because they were unskilled they were not permitted to remain.
At the time of the election, the number of unskilled workers coming into the country had
reached 1000 a month from Polynesia, Western Samoa, Tonga, and Fiji, mostly unskilled.
The Leader of the Opposition, who is being noisy, criticised the Prime Minister for
globe trotting, but he should remember that in the last 18 months the Prime Minister has
achieved more in consultation with overseas Governments than the Labour Government
achieved in 3 years. In Japan, the Prime Minister was successful in getting the message
across. At the Commonwealth Prime Ministers' conference he certainly had an impact, and
at the OECD discussions he was once again very successful in gaining recognition of the fact
that agricultural products should be taken into account in any movement of trade. When
speaking about his foreign policy, which is based on moral values, Jimmy Carter said: "The
great democracies are free because they are strong and prosperous. I believe they are strong
and prosperous because they are free. We have moved deliberately to reinforce the bonds
amongst the democracies. In our recent meeting in London we agreed to widen economic co-
operation to promote free trade and to strengthen the world's monetary system." So it is
necessary that we be involved in consultations and discussions throughout the world to put


## p. 1664 (#120) ###########################################

1664
27 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
our case strongly, and there is no better person to do that than our Prime Minister. He has
done it very successfully since he has been in office.
I want to speak about inflation-proof bonds. On page 37 of the Budget it is stated: “In
recognition of the difficulties small savers face in protecting their savings against inflation,
the Government is to introduce an inflation adjusted savings bond which will preserve the
purchasing power of a basic savings nest egg." People will be able to open an account with a
deposit of $100, with future deposits of $50 for each bond, limited to $1,000 in any one year
and $5,000 in any one account. At the present rate of inflation, I believe there is no better
investment for any person.
At the time of the 1972 election, a Methodist minister told me how difficult it was to
save for a future home. He felt there should be some method to help those people who have
homes provided with their jobs to obtain homes for themselves in the future. Workers on
hydro-electric construction sites, who move from one site to another, were also concerned
that they could not provide homes for themselves. It was on that score that I felt some
research should be undertaken. In 1974 and 1975 I introduced the Investment Bonds Bill,
but the member for Manukau, who was then Postmaster-General, gave seven reasons why
the scheme should not be ventured into. In 1972, with an inflation rate of 5.5 percent, the
return from the savings bonds would have been 7.5 percent. Of course, 5.5 percent would
not be a tax commitment. In the following year, the return would have been 10 percent and
the interest 2 percent, giving a total return of 12 percent. The return would be very high
today, although that has not always been so.
I quote from my speech in reply on the introduction of the Investment Bonds Bill, as
reported in Hansard, Volume 390, at page 1451: "I have worked out a table covering the 20
years from 1952 to 1972, and I find that if this Bill had been operative over that period there
would have been a return of 5.88 percent on the investment. It would have required 3.58
percent to restore the purchasing power over that period, and it would have had an effective
rate of 2.3 percent over the 20 years. I realise that we had a National Government for 17 of
those 20 years, but if a Government acts responsibly it is conscious that it has a duty to see
that the purchasing power of the people's savings is restored. Over that period of 20 years, in
7 years it would have been necessary to support an investment to bring the interest rate up to
a full 5 percent. So looking at the historical angle it would be possible to operate such a
scheme." The Government is confident that it will get on top of inflation. In projecting this
scheme, the Government is confident that its attractiveness will be such that people will
subscribe.
Mr Lange: It is limited to $5,000.
Mr LUXTON: It is limited to $5,000. Last night the Leader of the Opposition said that
this was another savings scheme for the rich. The fact is that a person need contribute only
$100 to start the account. The scheme is not for the rich; it is for the small savers. That is the
whole idea behind it. There was much comment when I introduced that Bill before. An
economist wrote to me and said that he felt the scheme should be tied to first-home
ownership or first-farm ownership rather than going as far as was expected. Another
economist felt that it was a good scheme that should be continued. Another point discussed
was that, as the bond would be negotiable, there was no reason it should not be listed in the
stocks and shares and sold as Government stock. In that way it would tend to attract
investment when the rate of inflation was going up, and give some stability to the economy.
Many people are looking for a safe investment, and I know this measure will be
welcomed. Many people who have small savings invest in Post Office savings accounts and
trustee savings bank accounts, earning 3 percent or 4 percent interest. This measure will be
more attractive to them in future. On the morning after the Budget was presented, I would
have moved a motion, but it was not permitted because it could have been an Order of the
Day. My motion would have been: "That this House congratulates the Minister of Finance
for his recognition of the difficulties faced by small savers, with the introduction of measures
that recognise that prosperity cannot be achieved by discouraging thrift, and futher
commends him for his many progressive monetary measures announced in his far-sighted
1977 fiscal programme."
The Budget is a very good document and every member of the House should commend
the Prime Minister on it. It is a very fine Budget in many fields. The Government is moving
out with greater emphasis in energy, and acknowledges the need to explore the full
possibilities of geothermal steam. Twenty million dollars will be spent on coal and on-shore
oil and gas, and this is a good move. More money is to be spent on small hydro stations. I
believe that many areas could have small hydro stations serving local needs. It is necessary to


## p. 1665 (#121) ###########################################

27 July
1665
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
conserve our petroleum products and our energy requirements. I remind the House and the
country that in 1972 our total petroleum imports cost less than $73 million. By 1976 the
increase in that cost was six-fold, to $442 million. If you relate it another way, 22 000 dairy
farmers required 20.9 percent of their total export receipts in 1972 to pay for our petroleum
imports. By 1976, although there were fewer dairy farmers their total production was
greater, but the total production of the dairy industry did not pay for our petroleum imports.
There has been a disastrous down turn in our terms of trade. Some of our standard of
living now belongs to the petroleum-producing countries, and we have great difficulties. Our
petroleum requirements have not greatly increased, however; we have been able to keep
them stable. The same applies to our requirements for other products. But when it comes to
phosphate, we need three times the percentage of our dairy products to pay for it than was
required in 1972.
This has been a good Budget for the farmers, and for everyone else. In the present
economic circumstances, it was a very wise Budget. It has covered many facets of our way of
life. The reduction in the number of livestock units required means that more farmers will
qualify. Many dairy farmers in may electorate were not able to participate in the old stock
incentive scheme, but they will be able to participate in this one. To 1 June, we had 2485
applications covering 2 400 000 stock units, in an area where there had been no growth in
stock numbers for some years. It is in the interests of all New Zealanders that we should have
a strong agriculture, because we will have to farm our way out of our economic problems.
There is other assistance for farmers. Additional money is to be spent on noxious
weeds. The vendor finance scheme will be welcomed by many farmers who wish to retire;
they will be willing to leave money in the land at lower interest rates than those offered
elsewhere. It is true that farmers have been reluctant to leave money in farming, because of
the poorer return. So often farmers want to get as much money out as possible, so that they
can invest it at the market rates. This concession will assist retiring farmers to leave a greater
portion of their money in land. This is a good move.
The Minister of Housing has a good rural housing policy, and a great deal of activity has
taken place in the last 18 months. The overall activity in my electorate has been good since
the change of Government, even in the small service towns. In Morrinsville, in the first half
of 1976, 24 buildings were being erected; in the first half of 1977, 37 buildings were in the
course of erection. In 1976, the average price was $15,000; in 1977, it was $22,000. That is
not an increased price; better homes are being built. In the Morrinsville area and the country
areas in my electorate, there is undoubtedly strong activity in the housing field now; farmers
have a certain amount of confidence, and they are moving forward.
I should like to compliment the Minister of Labour on the announcement made in the
Budget about profit sharing. I believe it will take out of the arena some of the negotiations
we have had in the past for higher and higher wage levels. Employees who are keen to see
that their firms are productive will receive greater benefits as a result.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.31 p.m.


## p. 1666 (#122) ###########################################

1666
28 July
Notices of Motion-Admissibility
THURSDAY, 28 JULY 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
NOTICES OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr COOPER (Otago Central): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That this
House notes with no surprise the report in the New Zealand Truth of 26 July 1977 that a
major row has developed in the Dunedin Central electorate between the Labour MP Brian
MacDonell-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! There has been some breakdown in communication. I ruled out
this notice of motion. Apparently the member did not realise, as it was not his notice of
motion originally. That is perhaps why the message has not reached him.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That this House
records the soporific nature of the speeches by the Leader of the Opposition, and sympath-
ises with his audiences, but is astonished—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! This is a notice of motion that I am almost certain I have
disallowed, unless there is some modification. [Interruption.] Order! I had hoped that
members would be a little more gracious in accepting the fact I am protecting some members
of the House from some of the more frivolous or offensive notices of motion. The reason for
this mistake is that the notice of motion came in from one person, the copies were put back
on his table by the Clerk marked "Disallowed in the present form", but other members had
apparently been given copies in order to give notice of the motion. That is how the mistake
has occurred. The notice of motion must be held over.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I am
disturbed about the procedure that has been followed today about the notices of motion. It
appears that, at the moment, notices of motion have been ruled out by you, but the members
involved have not been given the reasons why they have been ruled out. It has been
suggested that the notices of motion have been left on someone's desk. Surely that is not our
procedure.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): I share the Prime Minister's
concern. You commented that the notice of motion was submitted in the name of one
member, and when it was ruled out that member, or his office, was advised, but now another
member has given notice of the motion. It is clear that the breakdown has occurred
somewhere in the National Party caucus.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I do not need assistance on that point. The position is simply that
I receive an unfortunately large number of notices of motion that either contain assertions of
fact that are not authenticated, or are on the verge of being frivolous or of doubtful
appropriateness for moving or putting in as ostensible notices of motion. Today we have had
several. Normally the Clerk gets in touch with the person who intends to give the notice to
move. In this case the person who signed the notices of motion was not in his room, but the
Clerk left the notices in the member's room on the assumption that he would receive them in
due course. Apparently, as he is not able to be present in the House, he arranged for
someone else to read them. He did not receive the message, not being back in his room, and
the members to whom he had handed the notices for reading in the House were unaware that
the appropriateness of the notice of motion as proposed was in question.
However, I shall take further steps to improve the communications in future. It would
be desirable, when members are giving notice of motions on behalf of other members, that
they should make a late check as to whether the notices of motion have been approved by
the Clerk or, when referred to me, by the Speaker.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Unions-Voluntary Unionism Ballots
1. Mr LATTER (Marlborough) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he read the following
remarks by Mr Bill Andersen, as reported in New Zealand Truth of 19 July 1977: "The
Government's proposals are for State-run ballots to include supervisors and non-union staff


## p. 1667 (#123) ###########################################

28 July
1667
Oral Answers to Questions
in the ballot in any particular industry"; and, if so, do Mr Andersen's comments reflect
correctly the Government's proposals for ballots on voluntary unionism?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I have read Mr Andersen's remarks as
reported in New Zealand Truth of 19 July. They do not accurately reflect the Government's
proposals for ballots on the unqualified preference provision. Voting rights are restricted to
adult workers who are, or will be, bound by the award or collective agreement that is the
subject of the ballot. Mr Andersen's reference to State-run ballots is emotive. The ballots
will be conducted by the Registrar of Industrial Unions, who has had a responsibility for
conducting ballots on union membership since 1961.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Fish Processing Plant and Equipment-Finance
2. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Will the Government
make available at reasonable interest rates the money necessary to meet costs of improving
and upgrading fish processing plant and equipment to meet the requirements contained in
the Fish (Packing for Export) Regulations 1977?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Fisheries. The 1976 Budget stated that industries implementing comprehensive industry
development plans in line with the Government's broad objectives would be eligible for an
investment allowance of up to 40 percent on new manufacturing plant and machinery. This
policy was restated in the 1977 Budget, which added that new policy instruments will be
developed as necessary to assist industries to expand or restructure as indicated by their
development plans. Work is currently in hand for the production of such a development plan
for the fishing industry, in the light of the requirements of the recently introduced Fish
(Packing for Export) Regulations 1977.
Mr Courtney: Could the Minister say what the interest rates for this purpose will be?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: No, but I take it they would be the normal Government rates of
lending as for the Rural Bank or the Development Finance Corporation.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State House Tenancy Scheme
3. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Housing: Does the new 6-year, State
house tenancy scheme apply to existing tenants who voluntarily exchanged their now
oversize house for a smaller one more suited to their present needs?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): No, providing the existing tenant had
signed the old form of tenancy agreement, which is not limited to a term of 6 years.
Mr Bell: How many transfers of this nature have taken place over the last 12 months, or
perhaps for the year ended 31 March 1977?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I cannot give the member the number of transfers that have
taken place, but I can tell him that during the 1976-77 March year the Housing Corporation
considered that it had gained 638 bedrooms in its own rental housing by transferring tenants
from larger homes to smaller ones. Translated into terms of houses, this is estimated to be
the equivalent of about 210 rental houses, or a saving in monetary value of more than $5
million by the transfers.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Do I take it that in the circumstances outlined in the question,
where the tenant of a State house transfers to another State house, the original tenancy
agreement continues? It is my understanding that that is not so, and if I am right, do I take it
from the Minister's reply that a safeguarding clause will have to be inserted in the new
agreements?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: A tenant who transfers from one State house to another
would be granted only a 6-year tenancy. This has been made quite plain all along. A person
who transfers under circumstances that will allow for better use of the State house-for
example, a widow transferring from a three-bedroom State house to a single-bedroom State
house would be on a limitless tenancy and would not be required to sign a 6-year tenancy
agreement. That was the answer I gave to the honourable member.
Mr Bell: In view of the obvious advantage of encouraging people to make these
exchanges, does the Housing Corporation engage in an active programme to encourage
people with large houses to move into smaller ones?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: The Housing Corporation does undertake such a prog-


## p. 1668 (#124) ###########################################

1668
28 July
Oral Answers to Questions
ramme, and to the extent that its manpower allows it, it brings to the notice of tenants the
advantages of making larger State houses available where better use can be made of them
by, perhaps, a young family.
Mr Christie: As all State house tenants at present are in the low-income bracket, what is
the Minister's plan for those tenants who, in 6 years' time, will not be able to buy their own
homes?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: It is not correct that all State house tenants are in the low-
income bracket; that simply is not so. Those who are in State houses at the moment, of
course, do not have 6-year tenancies. Nothing can be done about them. People who take
new State houses, or take over a tenancy for the first time, will be granted a 6-year tenancy,
which is to be reviewed at the end of 6 years. The corporation may-and I emphasise
"may"-regain the tenancy after a year's notice. That does not mean that people will be
emptied out of State houses at the end of 6 years; far from it. It simply means that we will not
give lifelong tenancies.
Mr Kirk: As the Housing Corporation has said that no disadvantage will be suffered by
those who exchange their current State rental house for a smaller unit, why is it that those
who need a larger State house will be subjected to a 6-year limit if they exchange houses?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I thought I had made it plain earlier that we are seeking
better utilisation, and that the corporation wants to see large State rental houses made
available to larger families rather than simply a move in the reverse direction.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
International Airports-Full-time Nurses
4. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Has he read the reported statement in the New Zealand Herald of 12 July 1977 by
the Auckland airport superintendent and chairman of the medical safety committee that the
"lack of a full-time nurse had been raised with the Ministry of Transport but no action had
been taken"; is he aware that according to this report, a full-time nurse is required at any
international airport; and what steps is he taking to ensure that a full-time nurse is stationed
at all of New Zealand's international airports?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
Yes, I have seen the report in the New Zealand Herald referred to by the honourable
member. As far as I know, there is no international requirement for nurses to be stationed at
New Zealand's international airports.
Mr Isbey: Is the Minister suggesting that the Auckland airport superintendent and
chairman of the medical safety committee is completely incorrect in his statement?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Naturally, when the question was put before me, I sought
advice, and this is what I have been informed. Air New Zealand has a medical centre at
Auckland international airport, staffed by nurses, for workshop first aid and other similar
accidents. Many airline personnel have St. John first aid qualifications, and would be
available to help in a situation that required their assistance. The airport is also provided
with an emergency medical plan, and personnel, including doctors, are on call. This has been
arranged by a local medical advisory committee responsible to the Auckland Regional
Authority and the Ministry of Transport.
Dr. Wall: Should the industrial nursing facility available at the airport be extended to
make provision for the inevitable minor occurrences that affect travellers, but which would
not be of such a scale as to warrant an emergency scheme coming into action?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I understand that such a service can be provided in
Auckland. It is well known that doctors are on call at the major airports, and, if a passenger
takes ill in flight, I have known numerous occasions when a doctor has been waiting when
the airliner arrives.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: What is the position with Air New Zealand and other airlines at
Wellington and Christchurch?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I cannot allow that question. It is not only not in elucidation but
it introduces a new subject.
Mr Isbey: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I submit that the question asked by the
member for Timaru is in order, because, at the end of my question, I mentioned "all of New
Zealand's international airports". The member for Timaru was seeking to elucidate what
transpired at other international airports, which the Minister did not cover in his original
answer.


## p. 1669 (#125) ###########################################

28 July
1669
Oral Answers to Questions
Mr SPEAKER: The point raised is partly correct, and I see the question does refer to
"New Zealand's international airports". Even though it is barely in elucidation of an answer,
in the circumstances I will allow the question.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I apologise for not having covered the other airports, but
my understanding was that the question referred to the Auckland international airport. If
the member would ask another question I will get the information. This is the first time in 18
months that the matter has been drawn to my attention, and, after all, both the honourable
members had responsibility in my field for 3 years. The position is exactly the same as it was
then.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Oil Imports by OECD Countries
5. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: According
to International Energy Committee projections, how many barrels of oil are imported by
OECD nations per day, and how many is it estimated will be imported in 1985?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Energy Resources. In 1975 23.4 million barrels a day of oil were imported by OECD
nations. The secretariat of the OECD, of which the International Energy Agency forms a
part, has estimated that, assuming "present policies"-the estimates were prepared in
1976-for supply expansion and conservation continue, OECD countries would be import-
ing 35 million barrels of oil a day in 1985. With accelerated development of indigenous
resources and increased emphasis on conservation this figure could, the secretariat consid-
ers, be reduced to 24.4 million barrels of oil a day.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I should like to raise a matter under
Standing Order 75, which states: “Questions may be put to a Minister relating to public
affairs with which he is officially connected"-and then it goes on-"or to any matter of
administration for which he is responsible." I ask for your ruling on this question. I
deliberately waited until the Minister had given his answer in case he brought New Zealand
into it, but there is no indication from the answer that the Minister has any connection with
any of the matters contained in the answer. It is a matter of information that probably should
have been obtained from the library or some other source, but it hardly seems to be a matter
that should take Parliament's time within these Standing Orders. New Zealand is one
member out of 24, but there is no way in which the New Zealand Minister is associated with
what the other 23 members do in regard to the import of oil. I suggest that, if we are
concerned about the time that is wasted in supplementary questions, we should perhaps have
a look at this kind of question that has so little to do with New Zealand and ministerial
responsibility as to be almost tenuous.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Speaking to the point of order, if questions were to be ruled
out on that basis a lot of questions would be ruled out in the course of the year. The plain fact
of the matter is that the Minister of Energy Resources is vitally interested in the international
statistics of the oil industry. We are vitally interested in supply, we are vitally interested in
usage, and we are vitally interested in projections forward until 1985. I would have thought
that the House would be well aware of the great concern about the consumption of oil
globally as against known reserves. This is a matter of great interest to the New Zealand
Government, and, indeed, the energy policies enunciated in the Budget are a direct result of
this concern. The question is an important one, and the information will be of considerable
public interest.
Mr Wellington: Speaking to the point of order, first, New Zealand is a member of the
OECD. Secondly, we, as a member and as a Western industrialised nation, have a vital
concern in the area of energy, its use, and its conservation. I was about to ask the Minister
what impact the conservation measures recently promulgated by the Government might
have on our level of imports. I would have thought that was a matter of major and even
urgent public importance.
Mr SPEAKER: There is some ground for suggesting, as has been suggested, that the
question as originally phrased is fairly tenuously related to the points provided for in
Standing Order 75, but, nevertheless, projected imports of oil are closely related to
projected prices of oil, projected presumable total world consumption, and projected life of
world reserves of oil, and thus to the question whether we should be looking to an early
commencement of nuclear sources of energy. This question is addressed to the Minister of
Energy Resources, and though, in its present form, it is a little remote, I do not think is so


## p. 1670 (#126) ###########################################

1670
28 July
Oral Answers to Questions
much so that I could blame my staff for not referring the matter to me, and for assuming it
was a question that they should permit to go through.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
EIB-Training of Intelligence Officers
6. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt.
Albert), asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is the report in the Christchurch Star of 9 July
correct in stating that the resources of overseas posts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
the Department of Trade and Industry are being used to train intelligence officers attached
to the EIB, and, if so, how many and which overseas postings within the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry are being held by intelligence officers of
the EIB?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The resources of the overseas posts of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry are not being used to give
intelligence training to officers of the External Intelligence Bureau. It is not uncommon for
departments to arrange inter-departmental exchanges to broaden the professional experi-
ence of their staff. One EIB officer has been seconded on this basis to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. He is serving overseas, and is undertaking duties assigned by his adoptive
service—that is, the normal range of tasks of a junior foreign service officer. The host
Government was given this background to avoid any possible misunderstandings.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Are EIB trainees being seconded to departments other than the
two mentioned?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I have no such information. I am informed that the
course being followed was agreed to in principle by the late Rt. Hon. N. E. Kirk, and
supported by the present Leader of the Opposition during the term of the last Labour
Government. This procedure is simply an implementation of the principle then agreed to.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Regional Development Suspensory Loans, East Coast
7. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Could he advise
the total regional development suspensory loan advances in the East Coast council area in
the years ended 31 March 1976 and 31 March 1977?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Regional Development. For the years ended 31 March 1976 and 31 March 1977 the values
of the regional development suspensory loans in the East Coast Regional Development
Council area were $100,820 and $147,000 respectively.
Mr Bell: How many individual applications do these advances represent?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I regret that that information is not available. However, I
will try to get it for the member. I am sure he is aware that the information would cover the
number only.
Mr MacDonell: Bearing in mind that no regional development initiatives were taken
before the election of the third Labour Government, what was the total aid provided to the
East Coast between 1972 and 1975?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I cannot accept the member's statement that there was no
regional development before 1972. In the background material provided I do not have the
total for the period of the Labour Government. I would be more than happy, on behalf of
the Minister, to produce the information for the member.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: When there was a reduction in the total amount available for these
regional grants in the 2 years mentioned, which areas suffered so that the East Coast could
get an increase?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am afraid I cannot follow the member's question. No
mention is made of a reduction. I was asked about the years 1976 and 1977, and I have given
the figures. If the member wants to develop the theme, let him put down his own question.
Mr Bell: What was the total number of regional development suspensory loans
throughout the country during the 2 years in question?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: Again, I regret I do not have the material available. As the
subject is of great interest, I am sure that the House would welcome further questions to the
Minister.


## p. 1671 (#127) ###########################################

28 July
1671
Oral Answers to Questions
Richard Walls: Would the Minister agree that the relaxation in the Budget of the "once
only" rule for suspensory loans is likely to increase the flow of applications for regional
development assistance?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The Budget programme has that intent. The three major
measures in the Budget should, I hope, assist regional development.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Soccer World Cup Congress-"Two Chinas"
8. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Has he read the article
in the Auckland Star of 19 July 1977, which reported the Secretary of the Oceania Football
Confederation, Mr Charlie Dempsey, warning that "New Zealand must beware of taking
sides in the 'two Chinas' quarrel brewing for the Soccer World Cup Congress next year", and
does he accept the concept of "two Chinas", and, if not, will he advise Mr Charlie Dempsey
accordingly?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs. His answer is as follows: "I do not think that any New
Zealand organisation interested in these matters should be in any doubt about the Govern-
ment's firm views on this point of principle in our relations with China. The New Zealand
Government recognises the People's Republic of China as the sole legal Government of
China."
Mr Isbey: Is the Minister aware that Mr Charlie Dempsey is also a top official of the
New Zealand Soccer Association, and is apparently of the view that that association—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member is now adding a little speech to a
perfectly valid question.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I am certainly aware that Mr Charlie Dempsey is the
current tours director of the NZFA, chairman of the Auckland Football Association, and a
member of the New Zealand Football Association Council. For the member's edification, I
might add that I have the honour to be the senior vice-president of that organisation, in a
non-political capacity.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: Could the Minister, in his political or non-political capacity, put the
tours director right on the Government's policy towards China?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I do not believe that is necessary. Sporting bodies
and other New Zealand organisations clearly know the Government's position. One would
think they would have known the position of the previous Labour Government, which I
understand was similar.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Unless it has been changed.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: Well, I understand that the member for Grey Lynn
recently attended one of the Taiwan matches, as well as a function afterwards. I do not think
that would make any difference to the Labour Opposition's position; at least I hope it would
not.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Indigenous Timber Price Increase
9. Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel) asked the Minister of Forests: To what extent has the
increase in the price of indigenous timber been reflected by a reduced demand for native
timber and an increase in the use of exotic woods?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests): There have been two recent increases in sawn
timber prices. On 14 March 1977 increases in exotic and indigenous prices were granted on
the basis of economic submissions by sawmillers, and on 1 June 1977 further increases were
granted in prices for the decorative grades of indigenous timber, the objects of the latter
increase being to encourage maximum recovery of the higher grades, and greater discrimina-
tion in the end use of indigenous timber. Apart from the effect of any price movements, the
volume of indigenous sawn timber has declined. In the year ended 31 March 1976 round-
wood removals from State forests amounted to 4 360 000 cubic metres, with 530 000 cubic
metres, or 12 percent, coming from the indigenous forests, and 3 830 000 cubic metres, or 88
percent, from exotic. Provisional figures for 1976-77 show a marked drop from indigenous
forests to 433 000 cubic metres, or 9 percent of the total, and a substantial increase in exotic
wood removals, which reached 4 352 000 cubic metres, or 91 percent. At present it is too
early to be able to judge what effect the latest increase in the price of indigenous timber will


## p. 1672 (#128) ###########################################

1672
28 July
Oral Answers to Questions
have on the future demand for native timber and the use of exotic woods.
Mr Blanchfield: Is there any difficulty in selling inferior quality native timber, such as
sap-cuts or shaky heart, at higher prices, and is there any buyer resistance from home
builders for this second-quality timber?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: As the member knows, there is a large variation of quality of
timber in a native log. My information indicates that in Christchurch, which is the best area
in which to get a comparison, building A grade rimu is selling at $109 a cubic metre sawn,
radiata framing at $107, and treated radiata at $139. I have no indication at present of any
effect of different prices on the demands for timber.
Mr Schultz: Does the Minister's statement mean that we are now getting a greater
recovery of exotic timber, and will the policy be operated so that we get a greater lifetime out
of the remaining indigenous forests?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: The policy of successive Governments has been to obtain a better
extraction rate from indigenous sawn timber, and to encourage its use for higher value
purposes. The effect will be a decrease in the amount of native timber extracted over the
years, but it is part of the Government's policy to phase down the rate of extraction from
native forests, not to phase it out.
Mr Rogers: Would the reason for the drop in the use of native timber last year be that
the National Government announced an increase in the price, and that sawmillers stopped
cutting native timber until the price was raised?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: The member's assumption is quite incorrect. The figures I gave
were for the extraction of roundwood from forests last year, and that was in no way affected
by any price alteration this year.
Mr Prebble: Does the Government consider that the amount of indigenous timber being
milled at the moment is too large, or not enough; and what is the Government's policy if the
amount is not in accordance with its present hopes?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: As the member knows, the Government held a seminar in the area
of New Zealand most critically affected by any diminution of our indigenous logs—the West
Coast. Two hundred people of all shades of opinion attended the seminar on the future of
our native forests. They included West Coast people-who are naturally concerned about
the social implications of the reduction of logging there-the timber industry, the timber
processing industry, conservationists, and scientists. At present, in accordance with Govern-
ment policy, the future of the logging of our native forests is being evaluated on the West
Coast, and subsequently it will be evaluated elsewhere.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Woollen Mill, Ashburton
10. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: In view of his
confirmation in the Dominion of 24 June 1977 that the Government would make "every
endeavour" to ensure that the woollen mill in Ashburton continues its operations, can he tell
the House what steps he has taken so far to ensure that the mill does not close, and can he
indicate when negotiations with Mosgiel will be completed and what assistance the Govern-
ment is prepared to offer to ensure the mill's continued viability?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): In conjunction
with the member of Parliament for South Canterbury, the steps I have taken to ensure that if
possible, the woollen mill is retained in Ashburton are to encourage the formulation of
proposals to take it over as a viable operation and to indicate a willingness to consider the
provision of assistance to that end. This has resulted in the submission of a proposal, which
the Government is now assessing, by Mosgiel Ltd, to take over and incorporate the Alford
Forest Mill within the operations of the Mosgiel group. While the Government desires to do
what it can to preserve employment at the Alford Forest Mill, this is a complex matter, and
careful consideration must be given to all the factors involved. At present I cannot indicate
when negotiations will be completed, or what assistance might be offered to Mosgiel. The
matter is being treated with the utmost urgency.
Mr Talbot: Can the Minister confirm that he has kept me, as the member for the area, in
close touch with all developments, following my continuing discussions and representations
from the management, the work force, and the union, on this very important matter?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I can do even more than that, and say that the
member for South Canterbury has kept me fully informed of his views and of the
representations he has made to many parties.


## p. 1673 (#129) ###########################################

28 July
1673
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Do I take it from the Minister's reply to the original question—at
some length-that he is not in a position to give any assurance that the Alford mill will, in
fact, continue to operate?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I made it clear that it is a very complex subject.
Mr Hunt: Ha, ha!
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The member for New Lynn can laugh if he likes, but
it is not a laughing matter. People's employment is at stake, as is production. It is a complex
matter and the decision is not easy. All the facts have been collated by my departmental
officers. A senior officer-the assistant director of the development division-has been
down to the mill with other officers. He has met the management, the Mosgiel people, and
the trade union organisation, and has reported back to me. These matters are being
discussed with Government agencies, and I have told the House today that I will be placing
certain proposals before my colleagues in the very near future. I am working on it as fast and
as hard as I can, but it is complex. I assure the House that we are taking it very seriously
indeed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State Rental Houses, Gisborne-Rent Arrears
11. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Housing: What was the level of arrears
of rental payments in State houses administered from the Gisborne office of the Housing
Corporation as at 30 June 1977, how many cases of arrears does this cover, and what steps
have been taken to recover those arrears?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): The level of arrears of rental payments
in State houses administered from the Gisborne office of the Housing Corporation as at 24
June 1977, the latest accounting figures available, totalled $21,943 involving 112 tenants.
This represents arrears of 9.58 percent, compared with a national average of 7.19 percent.
The corporation has, over recent months, carried out an extensive drive in Gisborne to
impress upon defaulting tenants the consequences if their arrears are not paid. I am pleased
to be able to report a reduction of $4,594, involving 24 tenants, in the last 4-week period.
This represents a drop from 11.63 percent to the 9.58 percent I mentioned. The corporation
is continuing to give attention to the problem, and I will keep the honourable member
informed of the progress made.
Mr Bell: At what quantum of arrears is action taken by the Housing Corporation in
individual cases?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I am not aware of the actual quantum of arrears, although I
can indicate that in Gisborne there are 42 tenants whose arrears are between $101 and $250,
and 29 with arrears over $250. I am endeavouring to get the corporation to communicate
with those tenants who are in arrears—not so much on a quantum basis, as on a weekly
basis-in the hope that we can arrange some kind of discussion with them before the arrears
get to these large amounts of over $250.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I wonder if the Minister has with him, resulting from the drive that
he referred to on these tenants, information about the cause of the arrears; and if so, how
many tenants involved in arrears were finding difficulty in getting full employment in
Gisborne?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: No, I do not have that information. I do not think there is any
particular reason why the arrears should be greater in Gisborne than anywhere else. Indeed,
the arrears in Gisborne are by no means the highest in New Zealand. For example, purely on
a percentage basis, Mangere probably has the highest arrears in New Zealand, in that they
represent about 23 percent of the amount due. As I mentioned, the national average is 7.19
percent, and although the percentage for Gisborne is high it does not indicate special
problems in the area.
Mr Wellington: Can the Minister confirm that when the officers of his corporation are
dealing with those in arrears they give advice and guidance in an attempt to encourage the
tenants and perhaps enable them to meet their debts through orthodox means?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: The corporation's objective is, of course, to get the arrears
paid. The corporation's officers endeavour to enter into arrangements with tenants that will,
in the end, achieve that objective. The object is not simply to browbeat tenants but to assist
them where necessary. In this respect, and particularly with reference to the point
mentioned by the member for Roskill a moment ago, perhaps I could refer to a headline in
the Gisborne Herald which refers to a "get tough" policy. With your indulgence, Mr


## p. 1674 (#130) ###########################################

1674
28 July
Oral Answers to Questions
Speaker, perhaps I could also read one or two sentences from the article: "A 'get tough'
policy by the Housing Corporation in Gisborne is producing some quick results. Of 21 cases
due to go before the civil court, only 3 had to be proceeded with. Five tenants paid their
arrears in full, in one case involving $450, and others made a substantial lump sum
payment." So it is not a question of their not being able to pay, but one of their not bothering
to do so.
Mr Kirk: Can the Minister confirm that one of the reasons some State house tenants
may be getting into arrears is that their power and gas bills for a 2-month period total in
excess of $170?
Mr SPEAKER: It is fair to say that that supplementary question is irrelevant and not
seeking elucidation.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Can I take it from the Minister's answers that the Housing
Corporation's approach to tenants with rental arrears throughout the country has been a
social rather than a hard line approach; and can he explain how it is that a newspaper can
refer to what appears to be private business transacted between the corporation and the
tenants about who has paid up and who has not?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: In answer to the first part of that question, I think there
would be a little of both. Clearly, in some cases a hard line approach achieves desirable
results and in other cases possibly a softer and more social approach will achieve equal
results. I simply cannot answer the second part of the honourable member's question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
AGRICULTURAL WORKERS BILL
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I move, That the Agricultural Workers Bill
be introduced. This Bill replaces the Agricultural Workers Act 1962, which has two main
functions: it makes certain requirements for the accommodation and employment of
agricultural workers; and it provides for the making of Orders in Council to prescribe the
wages and conditions of employment of such workers. The accommodation requirements are
retained in the Bill, but a new system is instituted for the fixing of wages and conditions of
employment. Also incorporated are provisions to better ensure the safety and health of
agricultural workers.
The method of settling wages and conditions of employment in the agricultural sector
will undergo a fundamental change. Under the present Act the Governor-General issues
Orders in Council fixing these matters. The orders normally incorporate provisions either
agreed to by the main parties involved or recommended by the Industrial Commission. The
Government is of the view that the parties should be able to negotiate without direct
Government involvement. The Bill initiates a new system, replacing the Orders in Council
with instruments that will be either voluntary agreements or conciliated agreements, or
awards of a specialised agricultural tribunal.
The emphasis is on voluntary and conciliated agreements. To this end, a system of
registration is introduced providing for exclusive recognition of organisations of employers
and workers in any particular class of work. Each defined class of work becomes a
recognised category, and for each recognised category there will be one employers' organisa-
tion and one workers' organisation. The organisations concerned will be those most
representative of the respective parties. The schedule to the Bill defines the recognised
categories of work that will prevail when the Bill becomes law.
Certain organisations of employers and workers are listed as being given initial exclusive
recognition for the recognised categories. Machinery is provided for amending the defini-
tions of the recognised categories and for adding further categories if necessary. Also,
although exclusive rights of representation are initially given to the listed organisations,
where certain conditions are fulfilled another organisation may obtain exclusive recognition
in place of the existing one. Under this new arrangement every agricultural worker will be
given the right to join any workers' organisation of his choice, or to decline to join any or all
of the organisations. The organisation having the most members of the class concerned will
be given the exclusive right to represent that class.
As I mentioned previously, the accent is on voluntary or conciliated settlements of
disputes. The role of the Agricultural Tribunal in the disputes procedure is limited to
deciding unresolved disputes when agreement cannot be reached, even after conciliation.
The decision of the tribunal becomes an award. Agreements between the parties are deemed
to be awards once they are lodged with the tribunal. A breach of an award is an offence.


## p. 1675 (#131) ###########################################

28 July
1675
Agricultural Workers Bill
Procedures for the settlement of personal grievances and for the interpretation of awards are
set out in the Bill. The opportunity has also been taken to include safety and health
provisions in the Bill, which will provide some basic and general requirements for the
protection of agricultural workers. I therefore commend the Bill to the House as a measure
that will improve industrial relations in the agricultural sector and one that will lead to better
conditions for agricultural workers.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): First, could I just ask the Minister if it is his
intention, in due course, to move that the Bill be referred to the Labour Committee?
Hon. J. B. Gordon: Yes.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Good.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: With a condition.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I see. The Minister did not make any reference to that in his
speech. I believe it important to know at the outset whether the Bill is to be referred to a
committee, because it is a very important measure involving a very important principle, with
which I do not believe all members agree. For that reason I had hoped the Bill would be
referred to a select committee unconditionally, but the Minister has indicated that he will
have more to say about that later.
We oppose the Bill, and do so on several grounds. We will talk about them for a few
minutes today, but as the Bill is to go to a select committee we will not develop our
arguments in any depth. However, it is important that the public should know at once why
we oppose the Bill in principle. It has been around for a long time. I had something to do
with it initially, and I did what I could to bring the two parties together under the Industrial
Relations Act—that is, the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union and the Farm Workers
Association—and so meet what I thought to be the unanimous view of the House on the non-
proliferation of trade unions. That is the first point.
This Bill gives one section of workers a separate code of wage-fixing machinery which I
believe is unnecessary. Members will recall that in 1972 the National Government
introduced an Industrial Relations Act, which, subsequently, was passed by a Labour
Government without the penalties. On every platform in the country the Government has
said it is against too many trade unions, but now, although the law properly provides for
agricultural workers, we are to have another union, even though it will be called an
association, the very thing that the Government says it is against. There will be an additional
tribunal, even though five tribunals are already established.
The Government was on reasonable ground in its attempt to bring about, through a
great deal of consultation and negotiation, fewer places where people could go to have their
wages determined. If my information is correct, the president of the Industrial Commission
will be chairman of the tribunal, but my point is that yet another tribunal is to be established.
I cannot see why that is needed. Of course, undertakings may have been given to these
people who would, by and large, be substantial supporters of the Government. Other
workers making exactly the same sort of claims were denied a separate tribunal-for
example, employees in the Customs Department, or, say, the ice cream workers. I could go
on ad nauseam.
Although it was not a popular move, it seemed to me that the Government was
continuing to tackle a fairly difficult nettle by taking steps to obtain amalgamation, not
proliferation, of unions. Everyone-employers, the Government of the day, and the
unions—would benefit from some degree of amalgamation. Resources would be available to
the trade unions to develop their capacity to make a greater contribution to negotiations.
Proliferation takes away the combined co-operative resources that trade unions so badly
need. For that reason alone this Bill is not good legislation. Included in the schedule are
many agricultural workers already well covered under the Industrial Relations Act. For
example, there is no trouble with the threshing mill workers or the agricultural contractors'
employees and, although I have some doubts, it has been suggested that shearers have one of
the best awards. No one can say that this is a neglected area. Drovers and packers, and
nurserymen and gardeners, are two more groups properly covered under the Industrial
Relations Act. This Bill will give the New Zealand Farm Workers Association Incorporated
the sole right to represent dairy farm and sheep station workers, which is unfair, because the
New Zealand Workers Industrial Union already has coverage of those farm workers.
Mr Luxton: How many members?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: That is not the point. There are not many customs officers, but
they wanted a separate tribunal. This Bill will conflict with existing law. Under the State
Services Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act 1969, passed by a National


## p. 1676 (#132) ###########################################

1676
28 July
Agricultural Workers Bill
Government, the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union, as a service organisation, has the
statutory right to represent workers on farms under the control of the Department of Lands
and Survey. Will that be interfered with? The Farm Workers Association will have every
right, on the basis of possible financial members, to apply for registration under the
Industrial Relations Act. Probably that registration would be declined, but the association
could appeal under the same Act and, if it were valid that it was more properly representa-
tive of farm workers than an existing union, it would win its appeal.
I know from my discussions and negotiations with farm workers that they do not want
this. They object to certain aspects of the 40-hour week which cut across what they think is
necessary. Secondly, they do not want to be referred to as a union. These are very frivolous
reasons for wanting a separate tribunal. Sections 93 and 228 of the Industrial Relations Act,
drafted by a National Government in 1972 and passed without change in those sections by a
Labour Government in 1973, properly provide for farm workers' objections in this area. The
Government is cutting right across its stated objective of having fewer unions by creating
another union and another tribunal with this new legislation.
The Opposition cannot be a party to cutting right across what was agreed to in 1969
under the State Services Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act 1969. At no
time has there been a greater need for co-operation between the Government and the
Opposition to bring every section of the work force together so that they can view one
another's problems-the Government's economic problem, the workers' cost-of-living prob-
lem, and the employers' liquidity problem. That is not being achieved by fragmenting the
work force. Areas of confrontation are established under the schedule to the Bill, with more
than one union dealing with the same industry. That does not provide good industrial
relations in the modern sense. I have listed some of my objections to the Bill. The
Opposition will vote against its introduction, and will deal with it more fully during the
second reading debate subsequent to the select committee hearings.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn): This Bill represents a vote of no confidence in the existing
system of conciliation and arbitration contained in the Industrial Relations Act, and which
has been part of New Zealand's industrial history. The Labour Government introduced
legislation which has been respected by the present Government. We on this side find most
menacing the fact that the schedule lists the employers' and workers' organisations that will
be involved in negotiations. The second class of agricultural work referred to in the schedule
is employment on farms and stations substantially used for commercial production of meat
or wool. The representative organisations are the New Zealand Sheepowners Industrial
Union of Employers and the New Zealand Farm Workers Association Incorporated.
Over the years, shearers have been represented by the New Zealand Workers Industrial
Union, yet nowhere is it mentioned in the schedule to the Bill. Is the Minister attempting to
dispense with a bona fide organisation that has represented shearers for years, and appoint a
new body? In other words, the National Government is attempting to impose another union
on the country, and another union on an industry.
Clause 16 states that the president of the Agricultural Tribunal shall be the president of
the Industrial Commission. The membership of the tribunal is then specified, but the
Industrial Commission and the Industrial Court are ignored. This conflicts completely with
the statements of the Minister of Labour and the Prime Minister that we need a super wage-
fixing body for all organisations. Now we are setting up another tribunal to deal solely with
this new so-called organisation, the New Zealand Farm Workers Association. The Bill
creates a completely new tribunal to deal with agricultural workers' awards, instead of using
the expertise of an existing body.
Surely, in the interest of industrial conciliation and arbitration, it would have been
possible to refer this question to the Industrial Court, which, under the Industrial Relations
Act, has the authority to settle demarcation disputes. In fact, it is the only body that has the
authority to settle demarcation disputes. The proper body to decide who should represent
farm workers is the Industrial Court, which has that authority under the Industrial Relations
Act. Why have the Minister and the National Government gone to all this trouble to impose
a Government-created union on a body of workers when the New Zealand Workers
Industrial Union already has legal coverage of farm workers, particularly shearers. With one
stroke of the pen the Government is obliterating the coverage that was provided by the New
Zealand Workers Industrial Union.
The Bill has three purposes. The first is to obliterate an existing union with a long and
glorious history in the construction sector, a union that has co-operated with the Govern-
ment in all spheres. No one can deny that the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union has


## p. 1677 (#133) ###########################################

28 July
1677
Agricultural Workers Bill
played an important part in major projects throughout the country and also in its representa-
tion of shearers. The main purpose of the Bill is to destroy that union, which has been
recognised by the Industrial Court. Secondly, this Bill is a vehicle to impose on New Zealand
workers a National Government-created union. Thirdly, the Bill seeks to proliferate the
number of pay-fixing bodies despite the Government's having said repeatedly that the
country should have a super body to embrace public and private industry in every way
possible and so avoid the duplication of award and demarcation dispute negotiations. Both
the Minister of Labour and the Prime Minister have said the country needs one super wage-
fixing body, yet the Government is now creating another body.
If the Government suggests that the farm workers or the farming industry needs special
expertise, then both the Industrial Commission and the Industrial Court can call in assessors
to sit alongside them. After all, there is a wealth of experience available to both the
Industrial Commission and the Industrial Court. They have dealt with all sorts of industries
and many different jobs, and it is nonsense to suggest that the farm industry has some
peculiar requirement for a special tribunal. This legislation demonstrates a complete lack of
confidence in the Industrial Commission and the Industrial Court. It has been suggested that
arguments could arise about different conditions within the farming industry, but the
Minister knows full well that it is possible to negotiate a system to meet the needs of the
farming industry without inflexibly imposing a rigid 40-hour week or an exact 8-hour day.
The Minister knows quite well that this has been done by the New Zealand Workers
Industrial Union in negotiating shearers' awards. The member for Pahiatua would know that
when shearers go to different farms their conditions of employment have been negotiated by
the sheep owners with the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union.
Lastly, I ask the Minister of Labour why, with all the turmoil that exists at present in
industrial relations, he has thought it necessary to introduce another Bill, which will create
even more industrial turmoil. It will create another union and another tribunal, and it will be
seen throughout the country that the National Government is trying to create a National
Government-imposed union of workers.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I think I should raise this matter
now because the Opposition is being put in some considerable difficulty. In the 1974 report
of the Standing Orders Committee, dealing with the introduction of Government Bills it
states inter alia, "The Minister introducing the Bill should indicate in his introductory speech
whether or not he proposes to move that the Bill be referred to a select committee". By way
of interjection the Minister said it would be referred, but with a condition. This is the sort of
area where it would be very helpful if the Minister could make known his intention and so
enable the debate to proceed smoothly.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I appreciate the point raised. I told the
member for Roskill by way of interjection that I proposed that it should go to the committee,
and as soon as I get the call I will indicate the means by which it will go.
Mr SPEAKER: There is no need for me to rule now. It is convenient if this matter is
indicated early. It is not obligatory because we have a recommendation that is not
incorporated in our Standing Orders, but no doubt the Minister will bear in mind what is
desired.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I am a little surprised at the emotion
generated by the member for Grey Lynn. He suggested, in accordance with the philosophy
of his party, that all workers should be entitled to adequate union coverage, and should have
the right to arbitration and conciliation. He will be the first to concede that in the first three
categories listed in the schedule those aims and ideals have not been achieved. The Bill sets
out to achieve what must be the Labour Party's inherent philosophy. I propose to move later
that the Bill be referred to the Labour Committee, and the wording of the motion will be
that it be referred to the Labour Committee for the receipt of written submissions, the
committee to have the right to call evidence on any such submission, and that the
proceedings be open to accredited representatives of the news media.
The member for Roskill admitted that the Bill had been around for some time, and that
he had called the parties together when he was Minister to find a way through what he
considered a sticky issue. I too have called the parties together and attended conciliation
meetings, but I remind the Opposition that National's election manifesto stated that a
National Government would recognise the Farm Workers Association, even if this needed
legislation. That is the legislation before us today. We failed to reach by conciliation any
solution better than that which is in front of us. The member for Roskill was correct when he
said that the Bill establishes a new tribunal. At the moment there are several tribunals


## p. 1678 (#134) ###########################################

1678
28 July
Agricultural Workers Bill
handling various aspects of industrial relations, and I ask the member for Grey Lynn
whether he wants to see the Waterfront Industry Tribunal, as it is currently constituted,
disbanded.
Mr Isbey: The Waterfront Industry Commission has been in existence since 1951.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: What about the Air Crew Tribunal-how many members does
that cover?
Mr Isbey: You're creating a new body against your policy.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The comment made by the member for Grey Lynn, or perhaps it
was the member for Roskill, that the Government intended to bring together all wage-fixing
authorities is still germane. In 5 minutes' time the Prime Minister will be discussing that issue
with an interested party. I would be less than fair if I did not tell the Opposition that there is
a faint possibility that the section creating the Agricultural Tribunal might be altered before
the Bill is finally passed. I believe there is no alternative to such a tribunal until agreement is
reached elsewhere. The honourable member then said that New Zealand had too many
unions. I think all members agree that they do not want to see the number of unions grow.
Last year's annual report of the Department of Labour gave the figure as 292. I think I must
use the old adage that this is the exception to prove the rule. Regrettably, I have to say that
the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union, for which the member for Grey Lynn was loud
in his praise, and suggested I was going to kill, has not been giving coverage to these people.
Mr Isbey: It gives coverage to shearers.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Before the member gets into an embarrassing position I invite
him to look at the second definition. He will see that the Shearers Act 1962 is excluded. The
Bill does not cover shearers, and I was about to say that the suggestion that the New Zealand
Workers Industrial Union will go out of existence is completely incorrect. The reason for this
legislation is that the workers' union has failed to give adequate coverage to the first three
categories of workers listed in the schedule.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: It is given no authority.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: It has had the authority. Less than 5 minutes ago the member for
Grey Lynn said that the workers' union gave coverage, and I ask the member for Timaru if
he disagrees with his colleague. The workers' union has been entitled to enrol these people,
but has done nothing about them, nor has it done anything to protect the workers for whom
it is responsible. The member for Grey Lynn suggested the Bill was a vote of no confidence
in the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union, and regrettably I must say that could be a
correct interpretation. He also said it was not within the realms of the Industrial Conciliation
and Arbitration Act. I suggest that both are, but one has failed to live up to the ideals and
philosophy espoused by the member for Grey Lynn. I know that when he was a union
president he made sure his workers had coverage, but one cannot say that because a union
should have given coverage and has not, it should be given another chance. The Bill does not
destroy the workers' union; that should be made crystal clear. It gives those workers
coverage by a new voluntary association, which will be able to stand up and say these people
belong to it. Its aims and objectives are not solely industrial, but will include education, the
settlement of young farmers, and the betterment of the farm worker. No registered trade
union in the last 50 years has done that. The Government has had to step in and introduce
this Bill as the exception to prove the rule.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): The Minister has now indicated
that the Bill will go to a select committee, but one cannot help but be disturbed at the
conditions that have been placed on the proceedings of the committee.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: We have done it before.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: I do not think that precedent excuses the Government for
breaking once again its promise of open government. This means that people may make only
written submissions, and the Government, by a majority decision, will determine who, if
anyone, will come before the committee and give obviously more important and detailed
oral evidence. The Government will make sure that people who are likely to be damaging to
its proposals are not adequately heard.
It is clear that the Government is helping to proliferate unions, which is contrary to what
it and the Opposition have been advocating for some time. The Minister admitted that there
were 292 registered unions, and the position is to be made worse at a time when countries
that have come to terms with industrial relations talk about 12 or 15 trade unions. The
Government is ignoring most of the workers in this industry simply to bring the legislation in.
It is quite clear that if the workers' association had a case that would stand up it could have
been taken to the Registrar of Industrial Unions, and if it failed at that point it would have


## p. 1679 (#135) ###########################################

28 July
1679
Agricultural Workers Bill
been possible to take the case to the Industrial Court where it could have been properly
heard outside the industrial arena. But the Government is not satisfied with that, and insists
on creating yet another union.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: No, something better than another union.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The Minister has said that the shearers are excluded, so
one can imagine the ridiculous situation of a sheep farm up in the booai employing some
shearers and one other agricultural worker. Those workers, according to this legislation, will
be represented by two separate unions-at Lord knows what cost. In my electorate is a very
large tobacco and fruitgrowing industry, which, according to the terms of this Bill, will be
represented, as traditionally it has been, by the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union.
That district has another relatively small, but important, industry, the hop growing industry.
The legislation proposes that the people in the heart of the fruit and tobacco growing area
should be represented by another union. The determination will not be made by the people
in the area or by the Industrial Court, but by the Government by an Act of Parliament. The
best way of illustrating just how crazy the situation is becoming is to refer to the schedule to
the Bill. In the second paragraph the sheep owners are represented by the Sheepowners
Industrial Union of Employers. In the next column of the schedule it is decreed that the farm
workers are to be represented by the New Zealand Farm Workers Association Incorporated.
That means there will be a union for the employers and an association for the employees.
That underlines just how ridiculous the legislation is. It caters for a relatively small minority
of farm workers.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: What!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: It caters for a relatively small minority.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: How silly can you get!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The membership of the association has dwindled year by
year. The Minister can say what he likes, but this is a deliberate effort by the Government to
weaken and undermine one of the most responsible unions the country has ever seen.
Mr COUCH (Wairarapa): I support the Bill. I remind the Leader of the Opposition and
its labour spokesman that they know nothing about shearers and farm workers. I speak with
authority, because I have been both. It is obvious that the people realise that the shearers
who have been catered for by the workers' union have received good coverage in the past.
For that reason their coverage has been left alone. Farm workers, when they are not
shearing, have not been well represented. The only time the workers saw their representa-
tive was once a year when he came to collect the union dues. He did not have time to look
into the conditions of the shearers and the shed-hands. Farm workers fall into a slightly
different category. They requested that the Bill be introduced. I congratulate the Minister of
Labour for introducing the Bill so quickly. After 3 years the Opposition spokesman could
not resolve this complicated matter.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: We are not in favour of it; we want no proliferation.
Mr COUCH: That is why you did nothing about it.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I tried to stop the proliferation.
Mr COUCH: Now there will be no compulsion, but the workers will be given the
opportunity to join the union voluntarily. The Farm Workers Association will welcome the
Bill, because it will give the association the opportunity to cover its members. Members are
aware that at present the primary industry produces about 80 percent of the country's
exports. Primary industry is very important, and the farm workers are a responsible group,
who will now be given the opportunity to prove that the Government is not creating a union
just for the sake of creating a union. The Government does not intend to do that. It is
essential that the Bill be introduced, because the National Party manifesto promised it.
When the Opposition spokesman had the opportunity to settle this matter he ran away.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I didn't do anything of the kind.
Mr COUCH: You walked away.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I was opposed to it.
Mr COUCH: Whatever the member did, he walked away from the matter. The Bill is in
the best interests of the country, and I hope it has a speedy passage.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): We have just heard a very interesting address by
the member for Wairarapa, who supports the Bill. I guarantee that the Minister is sorry his
colleague spoke. I am opposed to the Bill. It is an industrial tin of worms, a patchwork
solution to a continual problem, and the Minister knows that. The member says the Bill
implements a plank in the National Party manifesto. Before the last election the National
Party stated it would recognise the Farm Workers Association even if it meant introducing


## p. 1680 (#136) ###########################################

1680
28 July
Agricultural Workers Bill
legislation. The industrial movement, the employers, the Government, and the Labour
Opposition recognise that New Zealand has too many trade unions. However, even though
the Government recognises that the country has too many unions, to overcome a problem
area and to implement a plank in the National Party manifesto-put there to win votes-it is
introducing legislation, against the interests of the country, to create another union to give
coverage to the farm workers.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: It is not another union registered under the Act.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: This is an association. Why has the Minister moved away
from the established procedures outlined by the member for Roskill, the member for Grey
Lynn, and the Leader of the Opposition, which are sufficient for the existing organisations?
The procedures give proper union coverage for any group. Instead of introducing the Bill
why did the Minister and his colleagues not bring the unions and the groups of employers
covered in the schedule into the one organisation? It is recognised that the country should
have fewer unions. The Government was not prepared to pursue the course of arbitration
and bring the parties together to reach a unanimous solution and resolution. The easiest way
out was to introduce legislation to give coverage to the Farm Workers Association. That is
the position, irrespective of what the Minister will say.
It would have been better for one organisation to cover the six groups mentioned in the
schedule to the Bill. The New Zealand Workers Industrial Union has had the authority and
the right to coverage of the farm workers in the past, but it did not have the full force of the
Industrial Conciliation and Arbitration Act to assist it to obtain that coverage. The Minister
knows that there would have been agreement if Federated Farmers had been reasonable
when negotiating 10 years ago, when the National Government was in office. Federated
Farmers rejected approaches made by the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union for the
coverage of farm workers, because it built up straw men. It had bogies about having to
comply with the 40-hour week. The New Zealand Workers Industrial Union told Federated
Farmers that it did not expect to hold the farming industry to a 40-hour week. Any objection
at all was magnified, especially the thought that farm workers would be covered by a trade
union. For that reason Federated Farmers encouraged the formation and growth of an
organisation known as the Farm Workers Association, something other than a union. The
association was encouraged because the federation did not want farm workers contaminated
by the trade union movement.
The Leader of the Opposition exposed the ridiculous situation that the first three groups
listed in the schedule to the Bill, and which it is proposed will be covered by the New
Zealand Farm Workers Association, are all groups of employers within the farming industry,
but they are unions of employers. The member for Roskill highlighted the point that one of
the objections to joining the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union was that farm workers
did not want to be called unionists, or associated with unionists; they wanted to belong to an
association. Be that as it may, and I know it is one of the reasons, I do not wish to magnify it
out of proportion. The member for Wairarapa referred to shearers, and their coverage by
the workers' union. He also referred to farm workers, and to farm workers who are also
shearers. What will be the position of the very many people who shear part time and work on
farms the rest of the time? Many of them work on sheep and dairy farms, and, particularly in
the South Island, they work in the high country. Under this legislation they would expect to
be covered by the Farm Workers Association, but what will their position be? Will they be
required to be members of the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union when they are
shearing? Will they be recognised by the Farm Workers Association when they work on
farms? Do they have a choice?
At first sight this legislation is a backward step, and as I look at it further I see it as an
industrial tin of worms. Clause 16 establishes the Agricultural Tribunal, which is to consist of
the president and two other persons, one representing the employers and one representing
the employees. Let us suppose that a dispute arises in a remote area, and that it involves a
shearing gang and some farm workers. Who will represent the workers? Will it be somebody
who is nominated by and acceptable to the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union, or will it
be somebody nominated by and acceptable to the Farm Workers Association? The president
of the tribunal has to decide. Here we have an area for dispute created by the Government
within the clauses of the Bill. I can foresee a situation arising where the person selected by
the president could be totally unacceptable to either the Farm Workers Association or the
New Zealand Workers Industrial Union. Perhaps the workers' organisation may be the
general labourers' union, if the group affected involves workers in market gardens where
soft fruit is produced.


## p. 1681 (#137) ###########################################

28 July
1681
Agricultural Workers Bill
The Opposition would have supported the legislation wholeheartedly if the Govern-
ment had taken steps to ensure that the whole agricultural scene was covered by one union.
Such a move would have been given active support and co-operation by Opposition
members, but we will have no part of this fragmentation of a vital section of our industrial
workers. We foresee nothing but trouble. We had hoped that with the passing of the years
there would have been a more common-sense approach from everybody concerned, and that
when the employers and employees finally came together there would have been unity. We
also hoped that if legislation was required it would be legislation that we could all support. I
worked at this problem for several years before I came into the House, and I am sorry, but
the more I look at this Bill the less I like it. It will encourage the proliferation of trade
unions. In many areas it will sow the seeds of further industrial problems and disputes.
Clause 51 covers permits to work for less than the minimum wage. Is this clause any different
from the section in existing legislation that relates to permits to work for less than the
minimum wage?
Hon. J. B. Gordon: Go and read the Act before you stand up and talk.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: Just a moment-it is all very well for the Minister to be
sarcastic.
Hon. J. B. Gordon: I'm not.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: The Minister has the Act in his hand. He knew he was
bringing in a Bill today; members over here did not know until the last minute. It is not easy
for members to move out of the House to get a copy of the principal Act. Is there anything
new in clause 51, which relates to permits to work for less than the minimum wage?
Hon. J. B. Gordon: No.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: The Minister says no, but in this type of legislation one has
to look for the cunning clause that may have been inserted, because this is employers
legislation. It purports to protect the workers, but it is the type of legislation that I shall have
a good look at with a fine-tooth comb. It is the type of legislation we would expect a National
Government to sneak something anti-worker into, and clause 51 is the type of clause in
which it would be done. I accept the Minister's word that there is nothing new in clause 51
about permits to work for less than the minimum wage, particularly the part that refers to a
worker's inability to work for the appropriate minimum rate. I wanted to be sure that the
clause did not rely upon the word of an employer that an employee is incapable of working
for the award rate. I accept the Minister's word, but if the position is otherwise it will be
revealed at the select committee.
I join the Leader of the Opposition in objecting very strongly to the terms and
conditions the Minister is attaching to the committee that will hear evidence on the Bill.
Interested parties must submit their evidence in writing, and I should like to underline the
danger in that procedure. I understand from the Minister, and from the member for Roskill,
that it is left to the committee to decide who shall be called to give evidence or to be cross-
examined on the submissions to the committee. The Minister said this has been done before;
that may be so. However, that does not make the procedure right. I do not like it,
particularly with legislation on which strongly differing views are likely to be expressed. If
one party is heard and another is not, an already controversial situation will be aggravated. I
hope the Minister will reconsider his decision.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central): The Minister of Labour has been less
than fair this afternoon. He has said that the Bill is to be sent to a select committee with
specific conditions. The conditions are that the committee will receive only written submis-
sions. I want to tell the House why the committee will receive only written submissions,
because the Minister did not tell us. In Straight Furrow of 8 June 1977 the Minister of Justice
is reported: "Mr Thomson said it was the Government's firm intention that this legislation
would be effective before 31 August this year." The real reason for not hearing evidence is
that the Government wants to jam the Bill through the House.
Hon. David Thomson: Does the member want more procrastination?
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: I want the democratic right to be heard for those who wish to
give evidence before the committee, which is more than the Minister of Justice is giving.
Whether it is the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union, the Federation of Labour, or the
Farm Workers Association, let us give them the right to come to the committee to give
evidence. Do I now understand from the Minister of Labour that he will agree to their
coming to give evidence before the committee if they request that right?
Hon. J. B. Gordon: They have to give us written evidence.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: No. Would the Minister agree that they come along and give
5 Vol. 412


## p. 1682 (#138) ###########################################

1682
28 July
Agricultural Workers Bill
verbal evidence, and be questioned on it? No, he would not. The Government is jamming
this legislation through the House-closed government-and not giving the people the
opportunity of coming along and presenting verbal evidence. The Minister of Justice
announced that the Government was going to jam this through by 31 August. The date today
is 28 July. In less than a month the Government is going to jam this legislation through. The
evidence has to be prepared and submitted to the committee, and the opportunity for these
people to come before the committee and be questioned will be nil; and the Minister of
Labour has not been fair enough to admit that, as he ought to have been.
I wonder whether the Minister of Labour had anything to do with the promulgation of
the policy on industrial relations in general as announced in the National Party's manifesto.
Did he have anything to do with it at all? He probably did, and I wonder if he agrees with this
statement on page 7 of the big version of the manifesto, which is the one that is supposed to
be right: "7. Amalgamation of unions. National will, with the co-operation of the Federation
of Labour, encourage union amalgamation at plant level, regionally and nationally, where
feasible." If the Federation of Labour comes along and gives evidence that it wants one
union involved in this, will the Minister of Labour support it, or is he against the announced
policy? Where does he stand on the policy?
Mr Wetere: He probably didn't know it was there.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: He probably did not know it was there, and this is the position
we have. There has been a lot of criticism of the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union and
its representation of the farm workers. Let me make it clear that, when the New Zealand
Workers Industrial Union wanted to discuss terms of work and pay with the New Zealand
Sheepowners Industrial Union of Employers, the employers broke off negotiations and then
blamed the New Zealand Workers Industrial Union for not holding negotiations. It takes
two people to negotiate, and this is what is required. If the Farm Workers Association wants
to represent the farm workers, it should apply for registration under the Industrial Relations
Act. There are far too many unions now, but this would give an opportunity to test whether
there is a need for another union.
We have seen today the Minister of Labour introducing legislation, contrary to the
National Party's policy, on a matter of very great importance to the farming industry, which
does not depend on just 50 000 farmers; 200 000 to 300 000 people are involved in the
farming industry, many being farm workers, but not all of them by any means. Probably
20 000 to 30 000 of them will be farm workers. Those people have a right to be heard and to
come along to the committee, where they can be questioned. The Minister of Labour is
denying those people the right to be questioned by the select committee, because he knows
he controls the majority on the committee. We are opposed to the Bill, because it does the
wrong thing. It is true that union representation is needed for the workers under the
Industrial Relations Act, because a few farmers do not treat their workers in a proper
fashion, although 70 percent to 80 percent of them do. Since the Farm Workers Association
had dealings with the employers, an agreement has been made. How far did they get
agreement on wages? It did not even meet the minimum wage scale. This is the sort of
negotiation that the National Party is forcing through the House.
The House divided on the question. That the Agricultural Workers Bill be introduced.
AYES, 42
Adams-Schneider; Austin, H. N.; Bell; Brill; Comber; Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott;
Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Gair; Gandar; Gill; Gordon; Highet; Holland; Jones, D. M. J.;
Jones, N. P. H.; Lambert; Lapwood; Latter; Lithgow; MacIntyre; MacLachlan; McLay;
Malcolm; Quigley; Schultz; Shearer; Talbot; Templeton; Thomson; Walker; Walls; Waring;
Wellington; Wilkinson; Young, V. S.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
NOES, 28
Arthur; Batchelor; Blanchfield; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Douglas:
Faulkner; Finlay; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; Lange; MacDonell; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble; Rata;
Reweti; Rogers; Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall; Wetere.
Tellers: Barclay; Young, T. J.


## p. 1683 (#139) ###########################################

28 July
1683
Agricultural Workers Bill
Pairs
For: Austin, W. R.; Bolger; La Varis; Talboys.
Against: Bailey; Drayton; Freer; Fraser.
Majority for: 14.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I move, That this Bill be referred to the
Labour Committee for the receipt of written submissions, the committee to have the right to call
evidence on any such submissions, and that the proceedings be open to accredited representa-
tives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
UNIVERSITY ACTS AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I move, That the University Acts
Amendment Bill be introduced. This Bill is similar in structure to the Statutes Amendment
Bill, with amendments to the Universities Act and the Acts of the various universities
introduced as one Bill that, in its final stages, is separated into eight amendment Acts: the
Universities Act 1961; the University of Auckland Act 1961; the University of Waikato Act
1963; the Massey University Act 1963; the Victoria University of Wellington Act 1961; the
Lincoln College Act 1961; the University of Canterbury Act 1961; and one that I am sure
would be of interest to members-the University of Otago Ordinance 1869.
The Bill results from several requests over the past 3 years by the University Grants
Committee and the universities for minor legislative changes, mostly of a machinery nature.
All the amendments have been discussed with the University Grants Committee, and have
the committee's support. The amendments to the Universities Act recognise that Massey
University is no longer an agricultural college, and has not been for some years; and add the
chairman of the Lincoln College Council to the list of persons to be consulted about all
appointments to the University Grants Committee. It first came to my attention at the time
of the appointment of the chairman of the University Grants Committee that the existing
Act rather curiously omitted the chairman of the Lincoln College Council from the list of
persons the Minister of Education must consult before making that appointment.
The amendments also provide for deputies for the professors on the curriculum
committee, and increase the number of university teachers on the research committee of the
University Grants Committee. Since the independence of the various universities was
established in 1961, each institution has developed its own view of how its governing body
should be constituted. These views are reflected by amendments expanding the membership
of councils through the addition of representatives of staff, student associations, other
tertiary institutions, and, where appropriate, local bodies. The addition of student and staff
representatives recognises the contribution those groups can make in determining the
policies of the institutions in which they work. Where other tertiary institutions have close
links with the local university, in Dunedin and Hamilton, representatives from the technical
institute or teachers college, as the case may be, have been included.
The growth of the wider urban area of Christchurch has led the Canterbury University
Council to include the chairman of the Waimairi County Council, while the heavier duties of
the Mayor of Auckland are recognised by allowing him to appoint another councillor as his
deputy. One change of special interest to members is that Lincoln College is to reduce the
number of members of Parliament on the council from two to one. Although the college has
greatly valued the contribution made by members of Parliament, the nature of their duties
often makes it increasingly difficult for them to play a full part in the work of the council,
especially committee work. For example, recently two council members so elected were
appointed Ministers of the Crown. One member of Parliament to be retained on the council
will be elected by all members of Parliament, instead of South Island members only,
following each general election.
A further example of the attitude towards the contributions of staff and student
representatives in university administration is demonstrated in the clauses adding represen-
tatives of these groups to the constitution of professorial boards, senates, and academic
boards, where appropriate. Several changes are made to the administrative structure of the
University of Waikato-professorial boards become academic boards, and schools of studies
and boards of studies are instituted. Other machinery clauses deal with the appointment and
functions of some university officers, and minor internal administrative matters. One
5.


## p. 1684 (#140) ###########################################

1684
28 July
University Acts Amendment Bill
amendment common to all the University Acts, except that of the University of Waikato
where consideration of it has not yet been completed, makes provision for the various
universities to enter into contracts of employment with staff; previously there was some
doubt about this. The amendments to the Universities Act 1961, and those to the Acts of the
individual universities and Lincoln College, represent the development of ideas about the
administration of the university system since devolution in 1961.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui): I want to ask the Minister a few questions. He mentioned
that there had been consultations with the University Grants Committee. As it appears that
there is now provision in every case for some kind of staff and student representation on each
controlling authority, I wonder if there has also been consultation with the Association of
University Teachers and the New Zealand University Students Association. I take the point
that there is considerable variation in the composition of the councils, but that would be
expected with the increasing concern about the devolution of control. Many people consider
this individual expression of control to be a very healthy development.
In clause 17, provision is made for the principal of the Waikato Technical Institute to be
on the Waikato University Council. Has consideration been given to similar representation
of other technical institutes or community colleges in the surrounding area—for instance, the
Rotorua Community College to be established in April next, and a similar institution at
Tauranga? I note too, that clause 46 makes provision for a member of the Otago Polytechnic
Council to be on the Otago University Council. Has any thought been given to representa-
tion from the Southland Community College? The Otago Polytechnic and the Waikato
Technical Institute are the only two such institutes mentioned. Could the Minister indicate
whether other universities are making provision for representation from the other technical
institutes concerned?
The greatest interest from this side is in clause 32-the representation by members of
Parliament on the Lincoln College Council. The Minister has indicated that it is to be
reduced from two representatives, elected by South Island members of Parliament, to one
representative, elected by all members of Parliament. The Minister might recall that this was
a matter of some contention 2 or 3 years ago, when the present Minister of Social Welfare
moved a Lincoln College Amendment Bill. Has the Government changed its mind, because
at that time there was a suggestion that there should be two appointees-as there have been
until now-one elected from the Government benches, and one from the Opposition
benches? The new provision will ensure that the member of Parliament will come from the
Government benches. On the face of it, that seems to be a very obvious move, because, until
1972-including, as I recollect, the Parliament elected in 1969 when the present Government
was in office-most South Island members of Parliament were Opposition members.
The effect of clause 32 will be to ensure, I presume, that the Government of the day has
the majority vote on the appointment of a member of Parliament to the Lincoln College
Council. In view of the fact that we believe that, by and large, South Island electorates vote
more sensibly than North Island electorates, that is a matter that will have some effect on the
kind of representation members of Parliament will provide for the Lincoln College Council.
We need to recognise the simple consequence of the amendment in clause 32, that the
representative from Parliament will be from the Government. Until now that has not always
necessarily been so.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The member for Wanganui will
understand that each of the universities has been discussing the constitution of its council for
a long time, at the local level, with interested parties. In all cases, the constitutions will be
amended to give greater representation to the students' associations of the institutes; and, in
one case, there is representation on the senate. In addition, there have been consultations
between the university councils and the Association of University Teachers, and most
universities have consulted non-academic associations of people employed at the univer-
sities. In some cases, those associations are recognised by the council as being worthy of
inclusion in the amendment, in order that they may have representation. I understand that in
a sense there has been no national consultation with the AUT and the New Zealand
University Students Association, because the constitution of each university council and the
Lincoln College Council is very different.
The member also mentioned representation of the technical institutes in Waikato and
Southland. Those technical institutes are strongly related to the universities. That is not
always the case, and it would be impossible for all technical institutes to be represented just
because they happen to be within the catchment area of the university council. They are
within those areas for certain purposes only-for example, the standard arts course-but


## p. 1685 (#141) ###########################################

28 July
1685
University Acts Amendment Bill
when it comes to, say, the veterinary course, of which there is only one in New Zealand, at
Massey University, the interest that the technical institutes might have in peripheral subjects
related to that university could not be readily identified as between the technical institutes
around the country.
In addition, in at least three cities a tertiary education consultative committee has been
set up. I hope that will soon be so at all university cities. The committee is established on an
informal basis, with a very strong representation from each of the tertiary institutes in the
area-for example, teachers colleges, technical institutes, and the universities. Those
informal consultative committees are doing a great deal to interrelate the various interests of
the institutes. I am certain that that interrelationship will be carried on even in those
universities that do not have a direct representative from a technical institute.
I stress that the changes made in clause 32 are based on recommendations made by the
councils concerned, and I am loath to upset them in any way, because the councils
understand the representation needs of their universities. Historically, Lincoln College has
had very interesting representation from the two members of Parliament elected by the
South Island members. There have been times when this has caused a certain amount of
difficulty in a political sense, which is unfortunate. There would be no great difference from
the Government of the day's having an extra appointee and saying it would make him the
Governor-General's appointee. It could easily be decided to appoint a member of Parlia-
ment.
However, in the process of appointing them I hope members will remember that, while
their political affiliations are important, they are not necessarily the most important factor in
choosing a member of the House to represent members of Parliament on the council. I do
not think it unlikely—although in the present circumstances it might appear so that a
member will be reappointed on the grounds of his service, irrespective of which side of the
House he is on. It is possible, although I do not think it likely, that we could have a third
party in the House, and if we had a system under which we had one member from each side
of the House the third party would not be represented. I think it is rational that all members
of Parliament should have a say in the selection of the member, because Lincoln College
does have a—
Hon. Michael Connelly: Should that principle apply generally when members of
Parliament elect someone?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I think it would apply.
Hon. Michael Connelly: It does not in a number of cases, as the Minister knows. If he
applies that principle, shouldn't he apply it across the board?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: No, it is very different; it is the appointment of a member of
Parliament to a body. In this case the body is the Lincoln College Council, which does have
some nationwide responsibility. I believe this is a sensible change, particularly as it has been
asked for by the council.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
MONEYLENDERS AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Moneylenders
Amendment Bill be introduced. This short Bill implements the Budget decision to amend the
Moneylenders Act 1908 to increase from 10 percent to 15 percent the interest rate that may
be charged by a person lending money in the course of his business, without his being
required to register as a moneylender under the Act. The Bill is essentially an interim
measure to recognise prevailing interest rates while a new Credit Contracts Bill is drafted
along the lines recommended by the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee.
The Government hopes to introduce a Credits Contract Bill into Parliament this year for
recess study.
The existing legislation causes problems, because non-compliance with the provisions of
the Act by a moneylender has fairly serious results. For example, the loan may not be
enforceable by the lender. It therefore becomes of paramount importance for a lender to
know whether or not he is a moneylender for the purposes of the Act. Unfortunately, it is
difficult to determine whether any particular organisation is in fact a moneylender. Organ-
isations such as stock and station agents therefore adopt a cautious attitude and lend at a rate
lower than 10 percent, while current interest rates have risen above that figure.
The present 10 percent limit in the Moneylenders Act is causing distortions in the
money market. The new Credit Contracts Bill will not contain any similar provision, and this


## p. 1686 (#142) ###########################################

1686
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
amending Bill is not therefore incompatible in any way with the recommendations of the
Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee. Because this is an interim measure
requiring enactment as soon as possible, and is a Budget policy measure, I do not propose to
refer it to a select committee.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I was particularly interested in
the Minister's comment that the Bill is an interim measure. I point out that some time ago,
during the period of the former Labour Government, representations were made seeking an
amendment to the 10 percent limit because it was difficult to enforce; of course, it has
become much more difficult. The Minister said it is an interim measure, but, as I read it, the
Bill does not set any limit to the period during which 15 percent is to replace 10 percent as
the deciding factor. I should like the Minister to indicate whether the Bill is to have any
definite period of effectiveness in case the other measure he referred to the one that has
still to be studied by a select committee-does not come through the parliamentary
machinery in the time he expects. You see, that was given to me 2½ years ago as a reason
why we should not simply amend the Moneylenders Act by varying the percentage, and
certainly not by raising it by 5 percent. It is obvious that that Bill has taken some time to
prepare, but I think the general public would like to know whether the Government is in fact
taking only a temporary step or making a permanent surrender to inflation, because that is
the only fair inference that can be drawn from the bald fact that, in the Bill, the definition of
a moneylender is to be a person who takes interest at a rate higher than 15 percent, whereas
for many years past he has been defined as one who took more than 10 percent.
I wonder whether Government members would like to reconsider what took place at
their party conference in this connection. I feel that the Bill sets the seal on the National
Party's decision to run away from the claim that there has been a Muldoon economic
miracle. On earlier occasions there had been a lot of talk about that, but it was not raised at
the 1977 conference because it could not be. As the Minister correctly stated, this is a post-
Budget measure that was made absolutely unavoidable by Budget decisions, which involved
an increase in the Government borrowing rate to 10 percent for a 2-year term. I shall quote a
few figures to illustrate the change that has come about, and ask members opposite whether
they really consider that this is an interim measure. I stress that in the view of Opposition
members it is an abject confession of failure of the National Government's monetary policy,
and the best that can be said for it is that the Government is co-operating with the inevitable
situation of its own creation, and asking the public to acquiesce in it.
While the Government pursues its policies, people who lend for long-term housing
mortgages should hardly be classed as moneylenders; but, of course, long-term housing
mortgage interest rates have gone well beyond 10 percent, and at the rate they are increasing
will go beyond 15 percent. Therefore one might wonder if it is the Government's intention to
remove that class of loan from the moneylender category, and whether the 15 percent now
set is high enough. The latest figures available on long-term lending show that, outside the
Government sector, the rate for new lending on housing went past 11 percent in March of
this year. It was almost 11 percent in January.
Mr Birch: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I have listened with interest to what
the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has been saying during the past few minutes. His
remarks have ranged wide, and have included comments on the Budget, comments on
housing, and comments on the Government's fiscal policy. Nothing at all in the Bill refers to
those aspects of the economy. The Bill has only two clauses, and is very narrow in its
content. I have just read the various points made by the Standing Orders Committee, and it
is clear that the remarks made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition are outside the
Standing Orders that govern the introduction of a Bill. I believe that he should be asked to
come back to the introduction of the Bill and to questions relating to whether or not the Bill
should be introduced. It is a narrow debate, and questions asked should be directed to the
Minister.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Speaking to the point of order, I suggest that this is simply an
attempt to break up an Opposition member's speech. The remarks I made are absolutely
relevant. The Bill is referred to in the Budget, but the interest rate is not. I was discussing the
interest rate, and the point I was making-certainly as far as I was permitted to go before the
interruption-related to the average rate. My next point is about the proportion of house
lending, which at this moment is subject to interest rates beyond 15 percent. I suggest that
the limit set is not an effective one.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! Will the Deputy Leader of the Opposition please tell
me why the point of order should be acceded to or rejected?


## p. 1687 (#143) ###########################################

28 July
1687
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Yes. The remarks I made were absolutely relevant. In the Bill a 15
percent interest limit is placed on the activities of people who lend money if they are not to
be categorised as moneylenders. My case is that people who lend for house mortgages should
not be in that category. Many people are borrowing today, for house mortgages and other
purposes, but all individuals or groups lending at the same rates will be categorised as
moneylenders. I want to argue, first, the need or lack of need for the Bill, and secondly, if it
is to be accepted, whether it will be effective.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I feel the point was very validly raised. In 1974 the Standing
Orders Committee said: "The committee considered various proposals to amend the
procedure relating to the introduction of Government Bills. It was agreed finally that the
present procedure should be retained, but that a time limit of 2 hours should be allocated to
the debate." The present procedure was that laid down and accepted by the House in 1972.
No change has been made by the House since. "The committee considered the introduction
of Government Bills at considerable length in 1972. There was general agreement that the
introduction of a Bill, except in exceptional cases, need not be a lengthy process and that in
general all that is necessary is a brief explanation from the Minister"—and we have had that
2 minutes' worth-"followed by a limited period of questions. It is unnecessary for the
Minister at this stage to give a detailed analysis of the Bill as this material is contained in the
printed explanatory note attached to the Bill, and it is also not the appropriate time for
members to make impromptu speeches that would be more suitable on a second reading
after they had had an opportunity to study the legislation."
So, in terms of the Standing Orders, we are not permitted to give a second reading type
of debate on the introduction of a Bill. At that stage we are permitted to ask questions of the
Minister for a brief period. The maximum time allowed for the introduction of a Bill-not
the total time allowed, and not inevitably the time allowed, but the maximum time
allowed as agreed in 1974, is 2 hours divided equally between the Government and the
Opposition, so that the Opposition is allowed 1 hour and the Government is allowed 1 hour
in which to make points as to whether or not the Bill shall be introduced. The Deputy Leader
of the Opposition was referring to rates of interest, to the Budget, and to matters in it, and
he was trying to develop an argument on whether the Bill should go further than it does. I do
not consider those matters were entirely pertinent, because the Bill cannot be discussed in
great detail until it has been introduced and is in the hands of the House. At that stage
members have an opportunity to go into the full details and to discuss the principles involved
in the Bill. The question before the House is simply to decide whether it will accept or reject
the introduction of the Bill.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I can certainly comply with the spirit of your ruling, Mr Deputy
Speaker, and shall simply ask the Minister of Justice what indication he has that the change
proposed in the Bill will achieve anything worth while. The purpose of the Moneylenders
Act was to define a class of people to be covered by certain rules as to their operations.
Subsequently it was decided that people who lend normally for housing by way of mortgage
should not come within that category, but they are not defined as a class. Other classes are
defined; bankers, for example. They do not come within the terms of this legislation, but, in
this Bill, the Government chooses to put a limit of 15 percent, a sort of arbitrary barrier. If
you lend less than that, you are not a moneylender, but, if you lend at a higher rate, you are..
Statistics that we have indicate that at March 1977 one house mortgage in every 13 was
at the rate of 15 percent or higher, which means that, in the terms of this Bill, one mortgagor
in 13, on average, will bring himself within the moneylender category. Is that what the
Government is setting out to do? In the Budget it has set the trigger for a further upward
hike. In what way is this Bill necessary because of Budget decisions? One Budget decision
was to raise Government rates of interest for housing by a further 1 percent. This will put a
higher proportion of house lending above the 15 percent category. If one has a prime rate,
the scale tends to build on the basis of that prime rate. I suggest that in terms of the Bill now
proposed, considerably more than 1 in 13 will fall within the moneylending category. We are
very concerned about people having to pay such interest rates, but we want to know the use
of this Bill, which simply puts up a figure that is not realistic in the circumstances created by
the Government.
Interest rates generally have gone up. A person who lends to the Government for more
than 2 years now takes an interest rate of over 10 percent. An institution, a person, an
associated group, and so on, is protected under this amendment, but what guarantee do we
have that this state of affairs will continue? It appears to be the Government's policy to
follow the market up. Will this legislation be amended from time to time? I asked that


## p. 1688 (#144) ###########################################

1688
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
question earlier, but the Minister gave no indication. He said it was an interim measure, to
be replaced by another Bill that would probably take quite a long time to come through the
parliamentary machinery. What is the real purpose of the Bill? What is the Government
attempting to achieve? Is it trying to give some extra advantage to those people who lend at
high rates of interest? We have no evidence that it represents anything in the Government's
policy on controlling interest rates. Where does it fit in? It encourages interest rates to go up,
not down, and makes it easier for people to have their loans registered and to collect their
debts if there is any difficulty about doing so. I repeat, what does this Bill have to do with the
Government's alleged policy of reducing interest rates? It is simply another step in the
Government's surrender to inflation, and disposes once and for all of the idea that there is
any Muldoon economic miracle.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I find it difficult to believe that the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition really meant what he has just said, because he was once
Minister of Finance, and I am perfectly certain that he understands the reasons for the
introduction of this Bill. He claims he could not understand it. Well, that could be a
confession that he was not suitable to be Minister of Finance, because this was an issue when
he was Minister, and I am perfectly certain he was told by his officials at that time. In fact, he
has admitted that it was an issue.
If we want to go back far enough into the history of this matter, the Credit Contracts
Bill, which will come in later this session, was started by the late Ralph Hanan in 1968. That
shows how long it has taken to come through. Once these things get into the hands of the
various law reform committees, you do not see them again for a considerable time. It is
possible that the Credit Contracts Bill will be introduced later this session, will then go to a
committee for recess study, and will be passed next year. In the meantime, I, as Minister of
Finance, want to free up an area of mortgage lending. I am sure that the Deputy Leader of
the Opposition is well aware that mortgage lending is being inhibited by the operation of the
archaic Moneylenders Act and its 10 percent rate. Moreover, the law itself is far from clear
on just when a lender is caught by that Act. Some lenders have been prepared to take the
risk; others have not. Therefore, a potential source of lending for housing has not been used.
I have come across numerous cases of people who were not prepared to take the risk that
they could come up in court and lose, because they should have registered as a moneylender.
This interim measure will enable transactions in the area between 10 percent and 15 percent
to proceed.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that 1 in 13 had an interest rate of over 15
percent, but really he should have said that 12 in 13 mortgages were under 15 percent. That
is a more relevant statement. Twelve out of 13 are under 15 percent but, of course, one must
accept that some are under 10 percent, and therefore not all are affected by this Bill. A
considerable number of transactions simply do not take place, and those are the ones in
which we are interested, in the interim, and up until perhaps this time next year, when the
Credit Contracts Bill will be finally passed. Those Opposition members who have been in
contact with this type of operation will know that this Bill is desirable and will serve a very
useful purpose. I remind the House that, with a rate of inflation of 14 percent for the last
June year, anyone who lent money at interest of less than 14 percent, after tax, was
subsidising the borrower and not even preserving the value of his money. We cannot argue
the issue of inflation, because that would be out of order on the introduction of this Bill.
Mr Lange: Humph.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: A gentleman who has recently come amongst us thinks he
knows more about the Standing Orders, but I can assure him that in due time he will learn
that such argument would be out of order. A further reason for the introduction of this Bill is
that, inevitably, interest rates have crept up. Doubtless they will go down in due time,
because they can move in both directions.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Not under this Government.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Here is another knowledgeable gentleman. All that the
member for Timaru would know about this issue one could write on the back of a postage
stamp and still have three-quarters of the space left. I have explained the reason for this Bill.
It is a simple but important measure.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Once a ratbag, always a ratbag.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! Did I hear the honourable member's interjection
correctly? Perhaps I was not intended to hear it as an interjection, but the honourable
member knows he is very close to me. That is not his fault nor is it mine, but on occasions I
hear things.


## p. 1689 (#145) ###########################################

28 July
1689
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: At least one, if he doesn't like that.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! On occasions I hear things that perhaps it would be
better I did not, but it might be more appropriate that I should hear them. However, when I
hear things that are not parliamentary, whether intended for my ears or not, I must require
them to be withdrawn. The honourable member will withdraw that comment.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I said, once a ratbag always a ratbag. I withdraw it, but I was
provoked.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I do not need assistance from any honourable
member. The honourable member will withdraw the comment without any addition to it.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I withdraw the comment.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I do not want to say much more on this matter. It is a
simple, straightforward Bill, which will have the effect of freeing up more mortgage money
for an area where I believe it is needed at present.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): Essentially, the Opposition will
oppose the introduction of this Bill, because it is just another stage in the sell-out to
moneylenders and a surrender to inflation by the present Government. The Deputy Leader
of the Opposition asked whether the Bill was of real use, and all we could learn from the
Minister of Finance-[Interruption.]
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: All we could learn was that it would help interest rates to
escalate a little more. He said it was a freeing up, but we cannot help but remember that we
had a freeing up of interest rates by the same Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, in
March of last year, the consequences of which are being felt around the country, particularly
by potential home owners. The fact is that in March of this year interest rates-and no doubt
they have escalated still further in the intervening period-for 3 out of 10 house mortgages
were already over 12 percent, and for 53 percent of mortgages were over 10 percent. That
occurred under the administration of the present Government. We are told that this is an
interim measure, but one wonders what the next step will be. Will it be a lift from 15 percent
to 20 percent? Rather than reining in the situation the Government and the Minister of
Finance have simply thrown away the reins.
My colleague the Deputy Leader of the Opposition asked a perfectly logical question,
which remains unanswered. He wanted to know what the real use of the Bill was. The Prime
Minister tells us it is to allow people to charge more interest to potential home owners.
Nothing could be a greater confession of failure than an admission by the Prime Minister that
the Government has thrown this matter out of the window. Can the Minister tell us where
this will end? I do not think it would be improper to use a comparison, and, since the Prime
Minister introduced this talk of the freeing up of the money market, let me point out that
since some sections of the money market were freed up in the March package of last year
Government stock has been lifted from 5.5 percent to 10 percent this year. All that
happened in a 12-month period. Where will we get to with this further freeing up of the
interest rates? Who is expected to pay the consequences of this open sesame for interest
charges?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The Leader of the Opposition has
seized on this very small Bill as a sell out to moneylenders. What an absurdity! I do not
suppose there is anything I can do to stop the Leader of the Opposition from living in a
make-believe world. This Bill simply raises interest rates, which are set out in section 2 of the
Moneylenders Act 1908, from 10 percent to 15 percent. That certainly does not sell out to
the moneylenders, but it does remove a long-standing distortion. I remind the House, as the
Prime Minister did, that in 1968 the late Ralph Hanan invited the Contracts and Commercial
Law Reform Committee to have a look at the inadequacy of the Moneylenders Act. That
committee's report has just been brought down to me this year, some 9 years later.
Both the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who was Minister of Finance in 1974 and
1975, and the Leader of the Opposition, who was Minister of Finance from the end of 1972
until the middle of 1974, know very well that the Moneylenders Act was outdated when they
were in charge of the country's monetary policies. A great deal of the present trouble in
lending and borrowing was caused by those two honourable gentlemen, through their
inadequate management during the 3 years they held office. We should approve this Bill. It
was announced in the Budget as an interim measure. The Leader of the Opposition has
asked what the next step will be. If he had read the Budget he would know, and if he had
listened to my speech when I introduced the Bill he would have been reminded, that the next
step will be to bring into Parliament, towards the end of this year, for recess study, a Credit


## p. 1690 (#146) ###########################################

1690
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Contracts Bill along the lines suggested by the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform
Committee.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): I question the purpose of the introduction of this Bill, because
it seems from the speech the Minister gave that there is a misconception about the functions
of moneylenders under the Moneylenders Act. The history of the Act is that it was to protect
those people who because of their need to procure money, perhaps in somewhat desperate
circumstances, could have been taken to the cleaners by those prepared to lend money to
them. The purpose of that Act was to provide them with a clear expression of their
obligations and also to give them relief if those who lent them money went beyond the odds.
Banks and insurance companies are not obliged to comply with the terms of the Moneylen-
ders Act because Parliament recognised years ago that some people can be trusted to be
reasonable in their dealings with those who wish to borrow, and with other people. The
people that the Minister and the Prime Minister have been talking about-those who would
make money available for house mortgages-are not bound by the provisions of the
Moneylenders Act now, nor are those who lend under solicitors' nominee companies,
because they are not in the business of lending money.
This Bill proposes to protect those who gather in money from other sources and lend it
out at high rates of interest, while gaining something on the way. Those are the people who
are properly called moneylenders and they are the people who will not now have to complete
their documentation if their rate is up to 15 percent. I believe the Moneylenders Act has a
greater role than that which the Minister has revealed to the House. There are terms and
contracts under which the Moneylenders Act can give relief to people, but, by this proposal
merely to allow 15 percent instead of 10 percent, we are taking away a protection that people
have enjoyed for years. I would be the first to agree that the Moneylenders Act has created
difficulties, probably because we always have to marry the money interest of those who
would be avaricious against the needs of those who are desperate. We will always have that
problem.
The Government is doing the House a disservice by introducing a Bill that does not
tackle the major issue but simply provides for a 50 percent increase in the interest rate that
can be charged before people have to go to the bother of a small amount of documentation.
Where is the benefit in that? It is a perfectly simple procedure to document a transaction in
accordance with the Moneylenders Act, and no honest person needs to fear it. It is a
safeguard that everyone would look for in every other form of consumer protection, and it
sets out exactly the obligations of the borrower. I believe this should be looked at as an
incentive to people to say that the sky is not the limit, because this is only an interim
measure. But wait until the Minister of Justice delivers the goods and completely removes
the moneylenders' protection and obligations.
Mr Birch: That isn't in the Bill.
Mr LANGE: That may not be in the Bill, but I draw the member's attention to the fact
that one of the clauses shows the fundamental misconception of the whole principle behind
the Moneylenders Act. Clause 2(2)(c) deems that a transaction is still caught by the principal
Act, not by this amendment, if an agreement or security is made or taken after the passage of
the Bill.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Mr Deputy Speaker has already
raised this matter of relevance, and I raise it again. I realise the member is a new member,
but he must still obey the Standing Orders, and he is now giving the type of speech one
would expect at the Committee stage of a Bill. Mr Deputy Speaker took the opportunity this
afternoon to read at great length the findings of the Standing Orders Committee on the
introduction of Bills. He pointed out that, during the introductory debate, questions should
be asked about the Bill, and a speech should not be made on particular clauses and their
contents. The question before the House is whether the Bill should be introduced, and one
would have thought that a gentleman with the background of the member for Mangere
would know how to speak relevantly.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: I suggest that the point of order has no validity, because the member
for Mangere is replying to points made by the Minister of Finance, which were apparently in
order, when he claimed that the purpose of the Bill was simply to free up interest rates in the
mortgage market. The member for Mangere has taken specific points in the Bill, and in
challenging them is talking with the knowledge of his previous experience of the workings of
the Moneylenders Act. I think he is being even more relevant than was the Minister of
Finance.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: It was impossible to detect any relevance to remarks I made,


## p. 1691 (#147) ###########################################

28 July
1691
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
in the speech that was being made when I intervened.
Mr Hunt: I thought the member was actually quoting from clause 2(2)(c) when the
Minister of Finance interrupted him.
Mr SPEAKER: I have no doubt that he was. The question is not what he was reading
from but whether it is appropriate material for an address on the introduction of a Bill. We
have this sort of standing abuse whereby a member, on the motion that a Bill be introduced,
says he does not think it should be, and then gives a second reading speech, which goes from
side to side and wastes much time. It is very difficult to control from the chair. I can only
leave it largely to the good sense and conscience of members as to whether they are not
giving second reading or Committee stage material, and hooking it to a statement that the
Bill should not be introduced, or whether they are ascertaining the broad intention of the
Bill and the intention of the Government in its passage, and whether it will go to a committee
and whether the evidence or views of certain interested or informative people should be
obtained. The detailed nuts and bolts of the Bill are not normally the proper content of an
address on the question that the Bill be introduced.
Mr LANGE: The question then, without reference to a particularisation of the Bill, is
why there should be introduced into the House a Bill that is at complete variance with the
existing law under the Moneylenders Act. The whole purpose of the Moneylenders Act is
that agreement and security should be entered into before the money is lent, but the Bill
seems to acknowledge a principle that you can enter into an agreement or security after the
money has been lent, and I would ask the Minister to confirm if that is so. If it is so, it
introduces a novel concept into the law relating to money lending. Historically, the
Moneylenders Act provides protection against those who would use an economic advantage
to the detriment of those in need of money. I suggest the reason the Bill is being introduced
is that the Government has given up on interest control and economic management, and is
now allowing those who lend money, having first borrowed it from others at a lower rate, to
lend it out at a higher rate. The Government does not want them to have to undertake the
simple task of filling in a printed form and making sure that those who borrow know the
terms of the advance.
I should like the Minister to tell me the result of the representations made by the Law
Society, and also whether the Consumers Institute has spoken to him about the need for this
legislation. Has he been advised by the Master Builders Federation that the provisions in the
Bill will engender the optimism mentioned recently in a public statement by the member for
Kapiti? I should also like to know what representations have been made to him that show
that the Bill will generate the economic optimism that would justify the claims made by the
National Party before the last election. I suggest there is nothing here except an out for those
who borrow from others and lend at a higher rate, because those people are not covered by
the Bill; nor are those who have saved money and then lent it out to people to build homes,
unless it is their business to engage in moneylending.
Mr Brill: What about building societies?
Mr LANGE: Solicitors' nominee companies will not be affected by this measure, as they
were not affected by the Moneylenders Act. I suggest that if the member for Kapiti had read
the Moneylenders Act he would know that building societies have nothing to fear. The
Government has obviously read the Moneylenders Act, but has listened to the representa-
tions of those engaged in the business of borrowing and on-lending. I ask the Minister where
building societies and trustee savings banks stand. I wonder if he realises that the trustee
savings banks are not involved in the Moneylenders Act, never have been, and never will be.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Previously the honourable
member was delivering a Committee stage speech, and I suggest he is now giving us a second
reading speech. I do earnestly suggest that he should take the trouble to consult some of his
senior colleagues about what is relevant to the introduction of a Bill. A speech on the
introduction of the Bill should put forward arguments why the Bill should or should not be
introduced, and should ask questions of the Minister. The member did ask a few questions,
but he then started into a second reading speech, which is not relevant to the introduction of
the Bill.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Mr LANGE: I again ask the Minister the reason for bringing the Bill into the House,
other than to allow people in the commercial moneylending community to raise their
expectations of what they might charge without the bother of engaging in contracts under the
Moneylenders Act. What message of restraint is being communicated to the fiscal commun-
ity by introducing a measure that has as its only real provision the blessing of the


## p. 1692 (#148) ###########################################

1692
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Government and the country to increase the rates of lending by 50 percent without any form
of control? Where has the demand come from? Has it come from people who wish to borrow
money for this type of increase? Has the Minister received representations from the Master
Builders Association, or from developers, which show that there would be a flow of money
into the so-called private sector involvement in housing finance? Who has made a represen-
tation? Is there any reason for the Bill, except that some people engaged in moneylending
have the ear of the Government, and do not want to be bothered giving to those who borrow
from them in times of need a full and frank disclosure of the commitments they are entering
into. What pressures have motivated the Bill?
Unless the Opposition receives answers to these questions it is entitled to assume that
the Government, as an interim measure, is giving its blessing to lifting interest rates in the
private sector. The conclusion that the Opposition can form is that when the interim period
has passed a person can charge whatever he likes, and people will not have protection and
will have to borrow money at high rates of interest. What will the Bill do to improve the
social fabric of the country? What does it do to relieve the people in my electorate who are
striving to bring up families on single incomes? What does it do to look after the people who
are facing the economic stress referred to in the recent Budget?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The Budget is a separate debate, and a separate debate in the
same session, and should not be alluded to in this debate. Moreover, what the Bill does for
this sort of family and what it does for another sort of family may well be advanced in the
second reading stage, but has nothing to do with the question that the Bill be introduced. As
I have explained ad nauseam, this is a limited debate. The exact limits are not definable, and
that is why, if members like, they can keep bulging the limits and go on ad nauseam. The
proper matters for consideration at this stage are whether the Bill should come in as it is,
what the Government's intentions are as to its passage, whether it should go to a committee
and so on. The proper limits of this debate are well known. It is regrettable that so many
members want to stretch it into a virtual second reading debate.
Mr LANGE: I ask the Minister what impact the provisions of the Bill will have on the
rural sector. Perhaps the Minister could tell the House why the stock and station agents are
now governed by the principles set out in the Moneylenders Act. Will the Bill enable stock
and station agents to increase rates of interest without having regard to the protection
farmers might enjoy at the moment? Is the Opposition entitled to assume that the Bill is a
green light for people to float interest rates to the new ceiling without incurring documenta-
tion, and can it assume that it now awaits the full completion of the deal that will take control
off moneylending? I ask the Minister how the Bill, as he sees it, can create relief for a
situation in which contracts for lending might be unenforceable, and whether the provisions
of the Illegal Contracts Act protect the capital sum advanced, even though it might be struck
down as a moneylending transaction?
The reasons the Minister gave when he introduced the Bill were, first, that some people
were uncertain about whether they were moneylenders. I suggest that by their rates ye shall
know them, and that they would have a pretty shrewd idea whether they were moneylen-
ders. The second reason the Minister gave was that people could make advances but be
uncertain of their position, the inference being that they would lose their money. Will the
Bill protect the capital advances the people have made, or is their position already protected
under the provisions of the Illegal Contracts Act? Under the Moneylenders Act, is it
competent for a court to allow people to have their capital returned, but not the rapacious
interest? These questions need to be answered. I have seen no evidence before the House
why the Bill should be introduced, other than—as is the very real assumption held by this
side of the House—that it is a warming-up process for what is to come in interest rates,
inflation control, and Government fiscal policy. The 50 percent increase in the rate, and the
lack of protection given to people borrowing in times of stress, are matters of concern to the
Opposition. These questions have not been answered thus far, and the Opposition seeks an
assurance from the Minister.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Before I call the next honourable member, I assure the
Minister that while I am in the chair he will not answer those questions, because they are not
relevant. Mr Prebble.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I
understand that Mr McLay had called, and I understand the call should go to him.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry, I did not see the member for Birkenhead stand.
[Interruption.] Order! I must say that I do not need interruption, nor do I appreciate it when
I am ruling on a point of order, which has been raised quite properly by the Minister of


## p. 1693 (#149) ###########################################

28 July
1693
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Justice. I was saying that I did not see the member for Birkenhead rise to his feet. I did see
the member for Auckland Central. I did not hear the member for Birkenhead, but I did hear
the member for Auckland Central, and I therefore called him. Normally, had I seen or heard
the member for Birkenhead I would have called him. The normal procedure is to alternate
speakers. If the member for Auckland Central is happy to give way—
Mr Prebble: I am prepared to give way.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: That solves the matter.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): It must be clear to the House at this stage that the Leader of
the Opposition and the member for Mangere, who has just preceded me, live in a world of
Victorian melodrama; a world that is populated by wicked landlords with wax moustaches,
by heroines collapsing with an attack of the vapours, accompanied by a rolling pianissimo—
and when I say a rolling pianissimo I do not mean a Rowling pianissimo, I mean a rolling
pianissimo. The House and the debate should return to 1977, not 1877, to a rate of inflation
that is now running at 14 percent, but inherited from the previous Government at a rate of 17
percent. The House should come back to the reality of what was created by the Labour
Government, which the National Government is trying to do something about. The House
should come back to the point, to use the words of the member for Mangere, where stock
and station agents borrow money at a higher rate of interest than they are entitled to lend out
at.
The member for Mangere asked what had been done about the representations made to
the Minister by the New Zealand Law Society. I assume the member for Mangere does not
know of the existence of, or if he does know he has not bothered to read, the report of the
Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee about credit contracts delivered in
February of this year. The report is complex and difficult, and the Minister has indicated that
that report will be implemented in its substantive form. Therefore, this measure can be
regarded as interim, and interim only.
Twelve months ago I spoke in the Address in Reply debate, and complimented the
Government on adopting a flexible interest policy, as it did in March 1976. Although that
policy has been criticised by people like the member for Sydenham, who does not
understand these matters, it has had some rather interesting and valuable effects on the
economy. Despite the misleading claims made by some Opposition members, based, I
understand, on advertisements that the member for Manukau knows to be on the very fringe
of the market, and from a minority of moneylenders, most moneylending in New Zealand at
present is at the rate of 12 percent to 13 percent in the uncontrolled sector.
Mr Prebble: Are you happy about it?
Mr McLAY: The member asks me if I am happy. No, I am not happy about the rate of
interest, and if he were in Government and had inherited a 17 percent rate of inflation he
would not be happy about it either. The fact remains that the rate charged at the moment is
less than the rate of inflation-between 12 percent and 13.25 percent. In tonight's Evening
Post there are two pages centred principally around the opening of the new Wellington Stock
Exchange, and they contain financial advertisements with interest rates ranging between 12
percent and 13.25 percent. Rather than interject, the member for Sydenham would do better
for himself if he read the Evening Post. By comparison, he might be interested to read the
New Zealand Herald of September last year, where rates of interest of 15 percent were being
offered. In other words, while the Labour Government was in power the interest rate was 15
percent, and has now dropped. The flexible financial policy has resulted in a positive
strengthening of the position of certain central financial institutions. I refer particularly to
banks and the like. This has given rise to the likelihood that in the medium term the financial
system will be more efficient in regard to cost and the allocation of resources.
I want to ask the Minister a question on this Bill, and I want to ask it particularly in
relation to other announcements recently made by the Minister of Finance. As is known, the
Budget, introduced 1 week ago tonight, announced that the rate for Treasury bills,
Government securities, and local body stock will be increased to between 7 percent and 10.5
percent. If it is intended, as is inherent in the Government's announcement this week, that
the rates for local body stock will be slightly more than 10 percent-up to 10.5 percent-does
that raise the possibility that the rates for such stock will exceed 10 percent, which is the
amount at present specified in the Moneylenders Act? As the members know, it has already
been recognised that the Moneylenders Act should be repealed and replaced by a Credit
Contracts Act. Members opposite have claimed that this measure will result in a general
increase of interest rates. I should like to look at that proposition for a moment, and to ask a
question arising from it.


## p. 1694 (#150) ###########################################

1694
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
Those who are charging more than 10 percent at present are those who are not
controlled by the Moneylenders Act. The member for Mangere gave us a list of people who
are not controlled by that Act, and they are already charging rates of between 12 percent and
13 percent in a competitive market, because the rates do not differ very much. If these
people are not controlled by the provisions of the Moneylenders Act, will the increase from
10 percent to 15 percent have any effect on them? It seems to me to be quite clear that it will
not have any effect on people who are already charging rates of interest of 12 percent and 13
percent. I should like the Minister to confirm this, but it seems to me that people who have
previously been limited by the Moneylenders Act will be able to compete more than in the
past with the people the Leader of the Opposition and the member for Mangere have called
usurers and loan sharks. In other words, the reality of the money market has been
recognised. This is an interim position that will finally be resolved by the introduction at a
later stage of a Credits and Contracts Bill.
Do members opposite oppose the recommendations of the Contracts and Commercial
Law Reform Committee? The member for Auckland Central and, as usual, the member for
Sydenham are trying to interject; I wish they would not interrupt, because clearly they do
not understand the provisions of the Moneylenders Act. I ask the member for Auckland
Central, who is to follow me in the debate, whether he opposes the recommendations of the
Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee, which says that the ceiling rate for
interest should be removed altogether.
Mr Prebble: That's not in the Bill.
Mr McLAY: The member says it is not in the Bill, but he knows that the Minister has
said that this is an interim measure pending the introduction of a Credit Contracts Bill. I
should like the member to tell the House whether he opposes that recommendation.
Mr Prebble: Sit down and I will.
Mr McLAY: It includes a recommendation-
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I cannot allow the member to continue along those
lines, because I cannot allow the member he is challenging to answer the questions he is
asking. He has told us himself that this matter is not in the Bill, and everyone knows that we
have had a lot of discussion this evening on matters that are related to the Bill, but are barely
related to the introduction of the Bill. I shall not allow any discussion on matters that are just
not in the Bill at all. We must at least confine ourselves to what is in the Bill, and not to what
is not in it.
Mr McLAY: Perhaps I could ask the member who follows me if he opposes the removal
of any financial restriction on moneylending contracts? I do not ask him to confine himself
particularly to the report of the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee; I
simply ask him to say whether he opposes any movement whatever in the interest rate.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! An upper interest rate of 15 percent is mentioned in
the Bill, so that is the only figure we can deal with on this occasion. We cannot deal with
some nebulous figure that might affect moneylenders in general. The original figure was 10
percent; it is now to be 15 percent. The question is whether the Bill should be introduced,
and we want reasons for and reasons against.
Mr McLAY: Perhaps I can phrase my concluding remarks in this way. The Bill increases
the rate from 10 percent to 15 percent. In the light of the recommendations of the Contracts
and Commercial Law Reform Committee, does the member who is to follow me oppose that
increase, particularly as it relates to what has been said about interest rates?
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I intend to reply to the member for Birkenhead,
and to keep within the Standing Orders. I can tell him quite simply that there is nothing more
permanent than a temporary measure. This temporary measure is a thoroughly bad Bill, and
I personally believe that, while a 15 percent limit on interest rates is better than no limit, a 10
percent limit is 50 percent better than a 15 percent limit. Not only is it a thoroughly bad Bill,
but the timing of its introduction is a disaster. I urge the Government to drop the Bill, not
only because it is bad, but because the timing could not be more unfortunate. By introducing
the Bill now, when inflation is running not at 14 percent but at this moment, for a whole
year, 18 percent-
Mr Malcolm: That's nonsense.
Mr PREBBLE: Four times 4.8 percent gives an interest rate for the whole year of about
18 percent, for the benefit of the member for Eden who appears to have difficulty in adding.
By introducing the Bill now, when inflation is out of control, the Government appears to be
signalling that it does not believe that inflation will be brought under control. Those people
who are lending money now, and who are trying to predict what will happen in the future in


## p. 1695 (#151) ###########################################

28 July
1695
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
order to fix the interest rate, are in fact being told by the Government, when it introduces
the Bill at this time, that in the Government's view inflation will not be brought under
control this year, and possibly as far forward as this Government is capable of thinking. That
is why the Bill has been introduced, and it is a great mistake. It means that people who might
have been prepared to lend at 10 percent, banking on the Government's promise to bring
inflation down to 10 percent-one or two people might actually still believe that the
Government intends bringing inflation down to a single figure, which is a plank it was elected
on-make a long-term loan on that basis. Because of the timing of the Bill, these people are
being told by the Government that 15 percent is a reasonable rate of interest.
I refer to the unfortunate remarks made by the Prime Minister, who said-I think I am
quoting him more or less correctly, as I took it down at the time—that anyone lending at an
interest rate of 14 percent after tax is losing money. I took from that that he thought they
should be able to lend at an interest rate after tax on which they could make a profit. If they
are on the maximum tax rate, of course, that would mean they would have to lend at about
30 percent, which is outrageous. The timing of the Bill is unfortunate, because I believe that
high interest rates are crippling the country. I want to point out the effect that the Bill will
have at this time. Many people have a $10,000 mortgage at 10 percent.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member has told us enough about the
timing of the introduction of this Bill to persuade us that, in his opinion at least, the
introduction of the Bill is badly timed; and he has adduced reasons for that. I cannot allow a
lengthy discussion to develop now on interest rates, the effect on housing, and so on. This is
not a debate on inflation, but a debate on whether or not the Bill should be introduced. That
does not mean that we can have a second reading debate on it. This is supposed to be a short
debate, not a lengthy process, with a limited period of questions from members and brief
answers from the Minister.
Mr PREBBLE: The principle of the Bill, I understand, is a statement made by the
Government that an interest rate of 15 percent should no longer bring the lender within the
provisions of the Moneylenders Act. At the moment one of the effects of the 10 percent
provision in the Moneylenders Act is that many solicitors advise clients who are lend-
ing money that they should lend it at 10 percent. As a result, a lot of money is being lent
for lengthy periods at 10 percent. The reason is that if inflation comes down in the future all
loans that are at more than 10 percent may be affected by the Moneylenders Act. While a
loan of 14 percent may, at the moment, be considered reasonable by a court, if inflation is
brought under control a court in the future, under section 3 of the main Act, may consider a
loan of 14 percent to be unreasonable. If it is still the Government's intention to bring
inflation under control, it should not introduce the Bill.
At the moment many people have mortgages of $10,000 at 10 percent, which means
they pay interest of $1,000 a year. Many mortgages include a standard clause entitling the
person lending the money to increase the interest rate at 3 months' notice. The only reason
the interest rate has not been increased is that that would bring them within the provisions of
the Moneylenders Act, but the moment the Bill is passed any responsible solicitor, because
of the effect of clause 2(3), would advise his clients to increase at once the interest rate to 15
percent, when they would still be outside any possible repercussions from the Moneylenders
Act. In the example I gave of a man who has a mortgage of $10,000 and is at present paying
interest of $1,000 a year, he could get a notice next week from his solicitor saying that within
3 months the effect of that standard clause will apply, and he will have to pay another $500 a
year-that is another 10 bucks a week.
What is the justification at this time for such a massive increase on possibly hundreds of
mortgages that will be affected in this way? I know a person, who is very near and dear to
me, who has a mortgage at 10 percent with just such a clause in it, and I do not see why he
should pay that extra interest. We have not had a single reason for the introduction of the
Bill now, or a single reason justifying the practical effect of the Bill. One effect of it will be
that many people who are now paying 10 percent-which is too high-will have to pay 15
percent, which in my opinion is nothing less than piracy. This Bill seems to me to be a licence
for loan sharks.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The member for Mangere asked the
meaning of clause 2(2) of the Bill. He will find the explanation for that clause in the
explanatory note: "The amendment does not affect any loan or agreement made or security
taken before the date on which the amendment comes into force. Nor does it affect any loan
made or security taken after that date if made or taken pursuant to, or for the purposes of,
an agreement entered into before that date" That to me is simple, plain, and comprehen-


## p. 1696 (#152) ###########################################

1696
28 July
Moneylenders Amendment Bill
sive. I do not want to seem discourteous by not following the member for Mangere in all his
observations, but they were largely second-reading observations.
The member for Birkenhead asked if those not now caught by the Moneylenders
Act, and now lending at rates of more than 10 percent-and he referred to many who
were lending at rates of 12 percent, 12½ percent, and so on-would be caught by this
amendment. The answer is, no more than they would be caught now. He then asked if the
increase of the rate from 10 percent to 15 percent would allow the registered moneylenders
to compete more vigorously. The answer is yes, and the Government believes that this will
be to the advantage of the health of the lending market. The member for Auckland Central
expressed his opinion that the Government should drop the Bill. The Bill is being brought in,
as I told the House in my introductory remarks, as part of the monetary package announced
in the Budget, and the Government will not drop the Bill. We will certainly not be a "do
nothing" Government. When we see a problem, we face up to it and do something about it;
we do not run away from it, or pretend it is not there.
The House divided on the question, That the Moneylenders Amendment Bill be
introduced.
AYES, 41
Adams-Schneider; Austin, H. N.; Bell; Comber; Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott;
Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Gair; Gandar; Gill; Gordon; Highet; Holland; Jones, D. M. J.;
Jones, N. P. H.; Lambert; Lapwood; Latter; Lithgow; MacIntyre; MacLachlan; McLay;
Malcolm; Quigley; Schultz; Shearer; Talbot; Templeton; Thomson; Walker; Walls; Waring;
Wellington; Wilkinson; Young, V. S.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
NOES, 28
Arthur; Barclay; Batchelor; Blanchfield; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Doug-
las; Faulkner; Finlay; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; Lange; MacDonell; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble;
Rata; Reweti; Rogers; Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall.
Tellers: Drayton; Young, T. J.
For: Austin, W. R.; Bolger; La Varis.
Against: Wetere; Bailey; Fraser.
Majority for: 13.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Pairs
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr LUXTON (Piako): Last night the member for Northern Maori said that the Budget
index had 186 items. I suggest that is why the Budget is a very good one. Many of the
Government's election planks, such as those on forestry, education, housing, health, social
welfare, and the best fishing policy the country has ever had, have been implemented.
Before the last election, I visited most of the fishing areas, and can say that as a result of the
Government's very good fishing policy, the industry now has the opportunity to import
larger boats, and that the provision of suspensory loans of up to 40 percent for certain vessels
built in New Zealand will help not only the fishermen but also the boatbuilding industry. The
fishing vessel ownership savings scheme is worth while for the younger fishermen, and a
greater contribution has been made to the Fishing Industry Board. The fishermen now have
tremendous opportunities for harvesting the sea's potential. This Budget, introduced in
difficult times, is imaginative and positive, and gives a lead to which I am sure the people will
respond. I congratulate the Minister of Finance for his efforts in preparing this very excellent
document.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): It falls to me to follow the stirring speech of the
member for Piako. Fortunately, for me and all of us, the greater part of it was given


## p. 1697 (#153) ###########################################

28 July
1697
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
yesterday, and overnight some of the excitement it aroused has subsided. As a result, I feel I
do not need to spend a great deal of time dealing with it, and I turn immediately to the
Budget which is the topic of the debate.
Mr Comber: I hope it does not send your members to sleep, as the speech the other
night did.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: The member for Wellington Central is obviously having a
monologue with himself. If he interests himself, let him continue. It was a long Budget-as
long as I can recollect. It was long on padding and stuffing, but it was short on pith and
substance. In fact, you might almost say, what it lacked in pith and substance it made up in
pith and well, never mind. Mr Social Credit Beetham described it as "itsy bitsy", to which
he added a few colourful pejoratives. The phrase that occurred to me was the Gilbertian one
of "shreds and patches", and that is what it is a thing of shreds and patches: an
uncompleted garment, hastily cobbled together to cover up the nakedness of the National
Party Conference. Just how indecently naked it was was regrettably and most unfortunately
revealed by the misguided July Front. Its timely assistance saved it from being a phantom
conference. Had it not been for that assistance, it would have been a nothing. But the
trouble with the Budget as a cover-up is its own very transparency.
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: The only phantoms were the Labour phantoms.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I could not hear that one, but I am prepared to listen next time
if it is a little louder. The Prime Minister promised beforehand that it would be anything but,
to use his own words, a ho-hum Budget, but that is exactly what it has turned out to be. It
was clearly not designed to influence the public generally, and its hostile press reception was
well merited. The main purpose-certainly its timing-was to sway an entirely different
audience, and that was, of course, the National Party conference in Dunedin. That leaves
open a number of different interpretations, and one wonders whether the apt word to come
to mind is whether it was to amuse, bemuse, confuse, suffuse, or even defuse. But whatever
the object, it failed to achieve it, and the Prime Minister emerged from the conference with
his sword bent and his helmet tarnished. Even his own supporters could see that at least his
toga had slipped.
A Budget, of course, is a social as well as an economic document, and I quote a very
interesting paper that I read recently, prepared by the Public Service Association. It is
dubbed a research paper, and is called Economic Review 1977. I regard it as a valuable
exercise on the analysis of our general economic situation, and if it is flawed by some
vagueness in its positive proposals and I concede it may well be-it is very useful as a
different approach to our economic problems. I refer to page 2 of the document, which
states: "The nuts and bolts of the Budget-the details of taxation and expenditure
proposals often detract attention from the broader policy that is being presented. This is
unfortunate. Comment on the types and amounts of tax being raised, and on the specific
programmes that are being financed, is important and essential. It is equally important,
however, not to focus on minutiae to the exclusion of all else." Any Budget reveals the basic
philosophy of the Government charged with its presentation, by its omissions as well as by its
contents. This one is especially notable for its omissions. Some 60 press statements were
required to complete and explain it; some are still coming out; but they have added—and I
suspect those yet to come will add-little; they are mere words piled upon, signifying
nothing.
What, I ask you, is one to make of this verbal camouflage, and I quote from page 21
under the title "High Priority Activities": "First, the Government will encourage the growth
of those productive activities which are of high priority because they are making an
outstanding contribution to economic growth and the balance of payments. The scheme
which is being developed will be based on the following principles: priority status will be
granted to a productive activity on the basis of a few clear-cut, largely objective, quantitative
criteria related to the activity's contribution to growth and the balance of payments; the
activities qualifying will form only a small proportion of total manufacturing; assistance
measures may include priority treatment by Government departments, priority access to
finance, concessional depreciation allowances and exemption from the 10 percent sales tax
on plant and machinery.'
Hon. D. A. Highet: Very clear.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: "Very clear", says the Minister of Internal Affairs. Well, I do
not think it is. I think it is bureaucratic bombast.
Hon. D. A. Highet: You stick to your opinion, and I'll stick to mine.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: That is good. I am glad to have an honest difference of opinion


## p. 1698 (#154) ###########################################

1698
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
with the Minister of Internal Affairs. He is honest, I try to be honest, and we can differ
honestly. It is an oratorical smokescreen designed to conceal indecision. No wonder it drew a
downright and forthright condemnation from the New Zealand Herald, which described it as
intolerable, and added that Moscow or Peking could hardly do better in giving such wide-
ranging discretionary powers to a Minister or a Government department-a comment which
I think is justified and well merited. If that passage means anything, and I doubt whether it
does, it is a charter for political preferment and a corridor for corruption.
The professed objective of the Budget-at any rate in all the before and after rhetoric,
the entrail plucking and political boasting-is to grapple with and reduce inflation. But,
curiously enough, when one turns to the Budget one finds it is reticent on the topic. On page
5, the Budget states: "In particular, the fight against inflation is going to be a hard one."
That is just about as much as the Budget tells you about inflation. I think it is true, but if the
objective is to reduce inflation, and if that is the only message the Budget gives, there is not
much comfort in it.
The truth is that this is a Budget of defeat, accommodation, and resignation. The
Leader of the Opposition made this point vividly and strongly in his opening address, and I
want to try to elaborate on that theme. While ostentatiously and noisily proclaiming to shape
up for battle, the Government has quietly sold the pass. The most abject and faint-hearted
surrender is the proposal we considered only moments ago to raise the rates of interest at
which a professional lender is presumed to be a moneylender, from 10 percent to 15 percent.
I concede, without any concealment, that it was becoming apparent even in our time that the
Moneylenders Act was out of date. But in recent months the pressure for reform has become
irresistible. To think that to make this simplistic substitution of one figure for another is any
more than a despairing throwing of hands in the air is to delude oneself. It will contribute
nothing. I cannot debate the merits of that at this time. I can comment simply on the Budget
proposal, and say that all I can see is that it does nothing except remove some areas in doubt
from people who think they may be moneylenders today at 10 percent; only tomorrow, or
perhaps the next day, they will still feel they may be moneylenders at 15 percent.
The same defeatist move to join, rather than beat, is evident in the increase in local
body borrowing rates. The proportion of rates and other local body income leaking away
today in service charges is already staggeringly high, and this will further reduce the volume
of actual visible works that a given sum of borrowed money will produce. Meantime, what
has happened to the Prime Minister's crocodile tears—a phrase he is more and more inclined
to use, and I turn it back on him on this occasion-about the state of the share market? With
finance houses borrowing at 13 percent, and now likely to go higher, how can manufacturers
achieve a proper mix of equity and borrowed capital? Is it not a fact that many companies
today are already nudging their permissible borrowing limits but still finding themselves
short of working funds? Did the Prime Minister not promise some investment relief on the
very eve of presenting the Budget? However, none appeared in the Budget. When are we to
see it? I ask that question in all seriousness, because despite the panoply, despite the
forecasts, despite what may be something more than forecasts of what was in the Budget,
and despite the television cover and so on, the Budget has now become an anachronism.
It is by no means the only taxing and fiscal move the Government will make in 1977-78.
I remind the House of what the Leader of the Opposition told us, again when he opened the
debate, of the five new records the Government has achieved in inflation, industrial unrest,
overseas borrowing, immigration, and taxation. It still has new records to make. I am sure it
will make them and that we will see them in some of the mini-Budgets yet to come.
"Inflation accounting" is the heading of a paragraph to be found in the Budget. It is dealt
with briefly. The Government clearly inclines towards it, but lacks the conviction to say so.
There is no doubt that many company accounts are misleading today and should be treated
with reserve, but to substitute for actual historic costs their estimated inflated replacement
costs would open the way to pocketing quite unjustified profits. We learned the difficulty of
controlling prices the hard way. With inflation accounting it would become not merely
difficult but impossible to control prices, and the purchasing public would really rue that RIP
had been substituted for RPM. Meanwhile the Government proposes what it calls inflation
adjusted savings bonds, with interest at 2 percent. Their attraction is obviously their
likelihood of capital growth, and it is revealing that the Prime Minister should hail them as
"the saviour of savings".
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Do you like that?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I shall go on and tell you. That is a clear admission that saving
as we used to know it is obsolete, and anyone with what is truly a nest egg had better forget


## p. 1699 (#155) ###########################################

28 July
1699
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
its existence. The likely tax advantages to a husband and wife with four children over 7
making an investment of $30,000 make an interesting speculation. I foresee the tax
consultants having a field day too, with the vendor mortgage scheme, and particularly the
situations that can arise from a farmer transferring to his son and leaving a substantial
proportion of the nominal purchase price on mortgage, with all the tax concessions the
Budget offers in that situation. Another fruitful source of confusion seems to be inherent in
the proposal of profit sharing. No one will cavil at the concept, and the idea that employees
are entitled to some of what is left after paying their wages, the costs of production,
distribution, and so on, has much to commend it, especially if they are also involved in
management itself; but to allow tax deductions on these is to put them in the category of
legitimate expenses rather than profits. And further than that, to declare that they are
outside the scope of any wage restraints is an open invitation to manipulation.
I come now to the Budget's "big deal", the much heralded, massive, and agonising
transport reappraisal. Well, it turns out to be a damp squib, over which the Minister has
exercised all the control of a Wimbledon spectator watching a tennis ball being hit from one
end of the court to the other. Competing interests have tugged and pulled over the Minister's
inert body, and while at this stage it is difficult to say who has won it is clear who has lost.
The whole concept is manifestly at odds with the proclaimed policy of energy conservation.
At best it is a bungle; at worst it is a swindle.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to the
comment just made by the member for Henderson: "At best it is a bungle; at worst it is a
swindle." I question whether those terms are in fact parliamentary.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I am happy to withdraw, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: The matter is solved.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: One loser is undoubtedly the Railways. Already creaking and
rattling, some more services will grind to a halt. The only increase we can expect will be in
the speed at which the rest run downhill. Road transport-some privately owned, of course,
in contrast with the publicly owned Railways-will benefit, but what is given with one hand
is taken away by the other. The probable outcome is that the gains will be reaped by the
operators and the penalties paid by the public. Some advantages are promised for urban
areas, but at the expense of the community as a whole. I wonder how Government farming
members relish the idea of country areas subsidising towns, as they will be doing, at any rate
to some extent. But if we want a devastatingly clear and simple example of the thinking
behind the Budget, we have only to turn to the proposals for passenger transport in
Auckland.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Oh, come on.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I am going to come on, and I invite the member for Waitemata
to listen.
Hon. D. A. Highet: I suppose you are opposed to them.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I am opposed to them. In Auckland there are three main
residential areas. One is the North Shore, the second is South Auckland, and the third is the
western suburbs. I have to concede that the North Shore is National territory, and I suppose
it could be described as backward and badly in need of liberation. I imagine the Government
believes it will continue to be so. South Auckland certainly saw some National gains at the
time of the last election, and I suppose the optimism of those who came into the House at
that stage will carry them forward. West Auckland, however, always has been and still is
traditionally Labour.
Hon. D. A. Highet: What has happened?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: All right, I will tell you what happened. Apparently the North
Shore is to get a car-pooling scheme, without even asking for it. There was some languid
discussion about such a scheme amongst the local bodies some time ago, when what was
called an estimate of the cost, but what I suspect was no more than a guess, arrived at a
figure of $42,000. With no further prompting the Government has raised the ante to $70,000
and said, "It's yours, boys." When I look back at the manner in which transport and other
problems that came before our Cabinet were subjected to the minutest scrutiny to ensure
that all the proposals were warranted and all the details were carefully sketched in, I must
say that there seems to be a great difference between the alacrity with which the National
Government has moved to accept that scheme and the cautious way in which we moved; and
I am bound to say that I would love to see the Treasury report on it. I know I cannot do so,
but I would love to see it.
All right, we move from North Shore to South Auckland. It is to share with the already


## p. 1700 (#156) ###########################################

1700
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
subsidised Wellington commuter lines $14 million over 4 years, with a promise of more to
come.
Mr Latter: It is $44 million.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I believe that is right. I accept the correction, and am obliged
to the honourable member. It is to receive $44 million over 4 years. I turn now to the next
one. The other suburban railway line in Auckland traverses the electorates of Mt. Albert,
New Lynn, and Henderson, three Labour seats, and the former Labour electorate of
Waitemata. Next election, the territory it will go through will be the electorates of Mt.
Albert, New Lynn, Te Atatu, Waitakere, and Helensville. It is fairly clear that the
Government has very wisely given up all hope of winning them, and the whole district is
being left out in the cold. The worst road congestion in Auckland, and I believe in the whole
of New Zealand, is at the intersection of the north-western motorway and the Great North
Road, where the whole of west Auckland traffic feeds into Auckland City. Other districts
and electorates have their flyovers and their motor pools-and I subscribe to this; it is a good
idea. I suggest there should be a motor pool for west Auckland and, if the member for
Waitemata, who is trying to interject, will join me in this, I shall be obliged. These other
electorates have their refurbished, restocked, and regenerated railway services, but the
Government is prepared to let the western suburbs of Auckland die of neglect and
starvation. I can only hope that the manifest injustice of this is so apparent and so clamorous
for remedy that even the flinty heart of the Minister of Finance will be softened, and he will
take appropriate action in one of the several mini-Budgets still to come in during this
financial year.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): It was indeed a little saddening that
in one of the swan-song addresses from our old friend the member for Henderson, who is
about to depart from the ways of Parliament, he was so dispirited about the argument he was
advancing that he saw fit to sit down a little past half his time. It was a brave effort. He began
with a great rush of verbosity-his verbal dexterity was indeed worth noting. He talked
about bureaucratic bombast, oratorical smokescreens, political preferment, and the corridor
for corruption. There was a lot of interesting verbiage, but not a great deal of substance in
his criticism. I can appreciate his predicament, because, although the Budget has been the
subject of a little criticism by those who have not seen fit to study it carefully, the honourable
member for Henderson was presented with a very real problem. He was asked to criticise a
Budget which is eminently sensible and realistic in the circumstances of 1977. That is the
strength of this year's Budget, and the weakness of the Opposition's attack upon it. Many of
the Government's achievements survive even the most strident criticism, if that is what it can
be called, from the Leader of the Opposition.
I shall remind the honourable member for Henderson of some of the achievements and
records this Government has chalked up. First, it has succeeded in reducing the Government
deficit before borrowing. The member for Henderson departed from the Treasury benches
with his discredited Labour Government leaving in prospect a deficit before borrowing of
$1,200 million to March 1976, and $1,400 million to March 1977. By grasping the real
responsibilities, including politically and economically difficult tasks, the National Govern-
ment turned this terrible record of the previous Labour Government into a dramatic
recovery; today, the deficit before borrowing is just a little over $500 million, while this
year-and I refer the member for Hutt, who is trying to interject, to page 43 of the
Budget-it will be about $382 million, a vast improvement on the $1,400 million his
Government left behind.
Tonight I shall concern myself more particularly with a very important and positive
feature of this year's Budget; I refer to pages 6 to 11 inclusive, the section devoted to energy
matters. The National Government is aware of the very real problem confronting New
Zealand and many other countries today, and it has resolved to tackle it resolutely, quickly,
and effectively. The problem centres on the fact that the demand for energy has been
growing faster than the world's ability to meet it. Nowhere is this problem more critically
evident than in liquid fuels, especially oil. The demand for oil will overtake supply some time
within the next decade, possibly. We may argue whether it will be 1981 or 1985. Very serious
studies have prophesied both dates, but, no matter what the date, it is within the foreseeable
future and within the time span that is clearly the responsibility of Governments in office
today, which must address themselves to this problem and act accordingly.
In 1972, when the second National Government left office, New Zealand spent $94.5
million in overseas exchange to import sufficient oil for its needs. This year, about $500
million will be required to meet the same objectives. Since 1972, inflation has increased by


## p. 1701 (#157) ###########################################

28 July
1701
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
90 percent, but the cost of imported fuel has increased by 470 percent. Needless to say, a
comparatively small country, which finds it difficult to earn and to save and to accumulate
overseas reserves, will be poorly placed indeed to bid against the economic and financial
resources of countries like West Germany and Japan when demand overtakes supply. At
that point, prices can be expected to skyrocket even further, and so it becomes very
important that we should act now and do all we can to best prepare ourselves to meet this
situation.
Obviously, we must encourage the Government and the country to learn to live within
their income. This message has been presented very strongly and, in political terms, very
courageously by this Government, not only in office, but also on the hustings before the 1975
election. As the first major step in our energy policy, my predecessor, now the Minister of
Housing, introduced the energy pricing policy late last year, which set out to lay the
foundation by establishing the cost of one fuel in relation to another. By using such a price
mechanism, we can discourage the use of certain fuels and encourage a diversion to other
fuels. The policy was established to maintain a clear cost margin in favour of coal and natural
gas as indigenous fuels, and to direct and husband the supplies we would need of imported
oil and of electricity, which, although in many respects it is based on indigenous resources, at
the marginal end does require imported oil as its original energy source.
We have set out in the Budget this year to reinforce in many important ways the
momentum begun with the energy pricing policy. For households in most areas where
natural gas is available, this fuel will be very competitive with electricity, and we want to
keep this margin of advantage. A number of items in this year's Budget are designed to
encourage people to act in this way. Later this year, as I announced at the Wellington energy
conference some weeks ago, the Government will be producing a booklet of goals and
guidelines. That document will be the first important step in presenting a comprehensive
range of proposals within a broad energy policy. It will be entitled Goals and Guidelines for a
New Zealand Energy Policy-first public draft. Indeed, from the very nature of the matter it
will have to be tentative in some respects, because there is still much we need to know about
some of the resources that we must either establish as being available or find alternatives for
before we can develop a firm long-term policy. I shall give more about that in a moment.
We have also recently introduced a Ministry of Energy Bill, which, as I am sure
members appreciate, will do much to give new strength and co-ordination to the Govern-
ment's administrative responsibility for handling energy matters and in guiding our energy
future. The Ministry of Energy will be responsible, among other things, for mineral
development, but its really urgent tasks will be to do all it can to encourage conservation, to
encourage full understanding of the nature of our resources, and to propose the best course
for the future so that we can make the most efficient use of the energy supplies available to
us. The Bill also enables the Government to form and to participate in companies
undertaking activities relating to energy or mineral development, to transfer the responsibil-
ity for pricing petroleum and coal from the Department of Trade and Industry to the
Ministry of Energy, to transfer geothermal licensing and related matters from the Ministry of
Works and Development to the Ministry of Energy, and to make provision for the transfer of
the assets, liabilities, rights, and responsibilities of the Natural Gas Corporation and
Off-shore Mining Ltd to a company wholly owned by the Government.
How clearly these recent moves stand in contrast to the inactivity of the third Labour
Government in energy matters!, I remind the Labour Opposition of the following quotation
from its 1972 policy: "Labour will expand and strengthen the Ministry of Energy Resources
to become wholly responsible for the co-ordination and development of the country's energy
resources." In fact, all that Government did in 3 years was appoint 10 additional staff
members to the Ministry of Energy Resources. It further said, "The Ministry of Energy
Resources will administer and operate the State coal mines, administer and operate the New
Zealand Electricity Department, and prepare estimates of the long-term needs of New
Zealand fuel and energy requirements." The third Labour Government did none of those
things.
It also said, "Approved industries in special areas will be offered an assured supply of
electric power at low cost." It made no such move at all. All it succeeded in doing in
electricity in its 3 years was freezing electricity charges, despite the rise in costs, to the point
that the Electricity Account had to be rescued by the Stabilisation vote in 2 out of the 3 years
Labour was the Government. For the information of the member who is trying to interject,
the consumer paid part of the bill and the taxpayer was expected to pay the other part. Not
only did the Labour Government not amalgamate the three departments as it said it would,


## p. 1702 (#158) ###########################################

1702
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
but it had three separate Ministers, one for each department, and in the case of electricity it
had two Ministers in 3 years.
The Budget steps forward confidently and resolutely and with considerable political
bravery into the task of tackling the energy problems before the country. We have begun
with the basics in research. We have more than doubled the provision for research in this
year's Budget, and that research, to be undertaken partly by the Maiden committee and
partly by several Government departments that are most directly concerned, will be moving
into exciting new areas where it is most important that New Zealand learns much more about
its true potential. For instance, the money available to the Maiden committee will amount to
about $470,000, and for the research sections of the various departments the figure is
$630,000, making a total of $1.1 million.
The research programme will include such projects as new research contracts on heat
pumps, wind energy measurements, energy use in the commercial and transport sectors,
small hydro possibilities, private energy generation, and a study of alternative methods of
undertaking energy farming. Among the projects that the Government departments will
directly concern themselves with, using their own resources funds, will be, in the case of the
DSIR, investigation of geothermal, coal, hydro, and petroleum resources. A Forestry
Research Institute pilot plant will be established for the conversion of wood into a useful
fuel. Ministry of Energy Resources studies are continuing, and will be developed in industry
in price elasticity for energy demand and distribution costs. There will be a new survey of
household energy consumption; the last such survey was in 1971. There will be the New
Zealand Electricity Department studies on electricity generation, distribution, and supply so
that this work may be done more efficiently and effectively. The New Zealand Electricity
Department will also investigate the potential use of wind energy for electricity generation.
Another exciting and important new development in this year's energy budget is the
provision for resource proving in three main areas, the first of which is geothermal. There is
no doubt there is considerable geothermal potential in parts of the North Island, but much
more work must be done to prove its true extent and the degree to which we can confidently
rely upon it as a source of future electrical power. The drilling capacity of the Government's
exploration team will be doubled by the end of the year. We will recruit and train a second
drilling crew so that two rigs can be brought into full operation in the 1978-79 financial year.
An aspect that will please my friend the member for Hobson is that drilling in Ngawha in
Northland this year will be exploring the possibility of what is believed to be dry steam,
which lends itself very readily to harnessing for electricity. My colleague the member for
Rotorua, who is the Minister of Tourism, will be interested in the drilling we shall be doing
in Tikitere early in the new year.
We will be making interesting investigations in Broadlands; and when I was speaking
today to our colleague the member for Taupo-who will be back in the House shortly-he
was very anxious to learn of the work being done at Broadlands. Those concerned are pretty
confident we shall have a 150 MW station operating by 1982. Interesting work is also being
done at Kawerau, where geothermal studies will link very appropriately with the develop-
ment of the timber industry. We shall be getting two new rigs in the 1978-79 financial year,
each with a nominal depth rating of 1750 metres. This will allow the replacement of the
existing rigs, which are about 25 years old and have only a 1000-metre nominal capacity. We
are stepping up the work of the DSIR into research that will support this programme. In a
full year, the cost of geothermal drilling will be about $7.5 million.
We are greatly accelerating the coal exploration programme. Members would have
heard me speak on this subject earlier this year. I am most anxious that we develop our coal
resources much more effectively than we have done. Before we can speak confidently about
the future of coal, we must know the true nature of the extent and the type of coal resources
we have. It has been shown that coal reserves in the "Indicated" category amount to 258
million tonnes, and that there are a further 180 million tonnes in the "Inferred" category in
the Rangiriri West, Ohinewai, and Waikere fields. Many of the seams are very thick and
very deep, and a lot of study will have to be undertaken before the technical problems of
developing these fields can be solved. Provision has been made in the Budget to build up
more strongly a programme to explore and to prove the nature of our coal reserves; this
programme will be developed to cover the whole of the North Island.
Perhaps the most exciting drilling and proving programme relates to on-shore gas and
oil. It is most important that the true nature of our on-shore petroleum resources be
established as quickly as possible, because it is not possible confidently to develop a long-
term energy programme without a much clearer picture of the nature of these resources. A


## p. 1703 (#159) ###########################################

28 July
1703
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
new company, totally Government owned, will be set up; it will absorb the Natural Gas
Corporation and the Off-shore Mining Co., which are both Government instruments at
present. The company will employ its own specialist staff, but meantime the work is under
the supervision of and is being supported by experts in the DSIR, the Ministry of Works and
Development, and the Ministry of Energy Resources. The first practical steps should be
obvious about the end of September, when there will be a spudding in at Mason Ridge in
Hawke's Bay. As a result of previous drilling operations, extensive seismic work has been
carried out here, and there is reason to believe that the well that was drilled and abandoned
in 1971 was not drilled in the right place. However, traces of gas were discovered, and it
would certainly be an interesting prospect to prove this field. The Government will be
purchasing a deep drill in the next few months that will be used in Taranaki and possibly
elsewhere. Other drilling programmes, all within the next 3 years and starting within the next
few months, will take place on the West Coast of the South Island, in the Manawatu, on the
East Coast, and in Canterbury, north of Christchurch. The cost of this programme will be
$10 million a year.
Another important feature of the energy section of the Budget relates to the new moves
in local hydro schemes. It is estimated that of the total remaining hydro potential of between
45 000 GWh and 55 000 GWh a year, about 4000 GWh a year could come from the small or
local hydro schemes-schemes of 50 MW or less. The Government will assist local supply
authorities to do what a Government department would do perhaps not as well, because it
concerns local areas, local projects, and comparatively small schemes. Collectively, these
local schemes could make a very important contribution to our total sources of energy. The
local supply authority will be expected to carry out the initial feasibility study, but the
Government will provide the money for the detailed investigation and design work, and will
carry the cost unless the project proceeds, in which case it will be added to the cost of the
scheme.
The Government will find 90 percent of the cost by way of loan to the supply authority,
which will find the other 10 percent. The loan will be on the basis of 10 percent per annum,
and the interest rate will be reviewed every 3 years. If the scheme operates at a loss in its
early years, the deficit will be met by further loans from the NZED, at whatever interest rate
the NZED pays to the Government for the money it borrows. Any indebtedness, either on
original capital or on loans from the NZED to meet earlier losses, will have first claim on any
profit the scheme returns. After original capital advances plus interest plus any loans to meet
operating losses over the years have been repaid, any further net revenue will go to the local
supply authority. This will provide the incentive for the local supply authorities to develop
schemes they have proposed; I know of about 19 prospective schemes of this nature.
Very important taxation incentives for industrial and commercial energy conservation
were announced in the Budget. Provision is made for an immediate 100 percent tax writeoff
in the first year for approved capital expenditure. The previous deduction applied only to
equipment for evaluation of energy used; expenditure on industrial insulation, with the
exception of buildings; and expenditure on energy control equipment. The scheme will now
cover equipment for recycling or re-using waste material; heat exchange equipment;
equipment for the recovery of waste heat; insulation of industrial and commercial buildings;
the sealing of energy leaks; new plant using indigenous energy resources; the conversion of
existing plant to use indigenous energy resources; and plant and ancillary equipment that, in
association with approved energy-using plant and equipment, mitigates pollution effects.
That is a major development, and I do not believe the Opposition appreciates the size and
the importance of that step. The 10 percent sales tax on any new machinery that is eligible
for the tax concession will be refunded by the Customs Department. Approvals will now be
given by the Commissioner of Inland Revenue instead of the Commissioner of Energy
Resources, and further details of this change are available from both departments.
Domestic use of natural gas is also being encouraged. The Government has set a
minimum target of two gas appliances for each consumer in 50 percent of the homes in a
reticulated area. To encourage this, a grant of $200 will be made by the Ministry of Energy
Resources to natural gas undertakings for each new household connection made where the
householder has opted for two of the three major uses of cooking, water heating, and space
heating. Duty on gas stoves imported from Australia will be waived temporarily, and the
rate on gas stoves imported from other countries will be reduced to 5 percent from the
present 45 percent, to help bridge the gap between the cost of gas and electric stoves. The
Government undertakes to provide interest-free loans on a 4-year term of $100 for gas
stoves, $100 for water heaters, excluding swimming pools, and $200 for space heating where


## p. 1704 (#160) ###########################################

1704
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
more than one room is involved. The loans will be available to creditworthy builders, and
can be transferred to the home owner from the date of occupation. Each of these steps is
designed in a very practical way to encourage people to use natural gas instead of electricity.
In new homes where the home owner takes up both the home insulation loan and the gas
application loan for space heating, repayment of the home insulation loan can be deferred
for 1 year.
I mentioned that certain matters of political courage were involved in the energy
policies announced in the Budget. An example is the compulsory requirement that, as from 1
January 1978, building permits for new residential buildings will be granted only if they
comply with the minimum insulation requirements. There is no doubt that this requirement
is a very important conservation move. The element of compulsion is not something that any
Government introduces lightly, but the Government believes that it is necessary in the
national good. The standards will in general conform to the standard already required under
the existing home insulation scheme. Incidentally, the interest-free loan period is to be
extended from 2 years to 4 years, and the maximum loan available is to be increased from
$300 to $400. Again, these are examples of the Government's doing something positive and
constructive about meeting the energy problem.
The member for Henderson was at pains to discount the value of the car-pooling
proposal outlined in the Budget. He seemed to think that, because it was initiated on the
North Shore by some very enterprising local bodies, including the Auckland Harbour Bridge
Authority, that meant it was wrong or that it favoured one area of the country. That is not
so. The North Shore is a particularly good area for a car-pooling experiment, because many
people there travel at peak hours across the same narrow traffic avenue from a common
point of origin to a common destination. The Auckland Harbour Bridge Authority
approached me and some of my colleagues on the North Shore to seek our co-operation. The
authority thought that $42,000 would be sufficient to carry out the pilot scheme. The
Government took the matter very seriously and studied its implications. It realised that
$42,000 would not be enough to fund the scheme adequately, so $70,000 is being provided. If
the average capacity at peak hours could be increased from the present 1.2 passengers per
car to the national average of 1.5 passengers per car, this one act could save $2 million in
imported oil.
The Government has introduced a range of sales taxes on certain petroleum products
and energy-intensive appliances-estimated to provide $10 million this year and $20 million
in a full year-in order to finance some of the savings programmes and also to discourage the
use of oil where other indigenous products are to be preferred. In this way, and in many
others, the National Government is proving that it can face facts and problems in a
responsible manner, and does so in such a way that it is prepared to act.
Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay): In spite of the ritual incantations of the Minister of Energy
Resources, I should like to know--and I think the country is entitled to know-what sums
the Government has provided in the estimates that it does not intend to spend. That is a
serious question. If one looks at the estimates of Government expenditure for last year one
finds that, although the House was misled into voting sums of money to support the
Government's activities, the money was not expended on those enterprises. How many
people are being misled by the ritual incantations of members opposite like the Minister of
Energy Resources, who is promising the moon but who last year delivered nothing except
the highest rate of inflation the country has ever seen? The Opposition should ask that
legitimate question, and a member on the other side should answer it with facts. I hope that
members opposite, or the next Government speaker, will tell me how much of what was
voted by the House last year was underexpended. I shall then ask if this is good financial
management or if it is some form of financial trickery, because I suggest that that is what it is.
There is too much sleight of hand about the Budget. Anyone who has had anything to
do with business can see through the ploys of the Government. The Budget debate gives
Parliament a chance to examine the Government's mismanagement. Members will be asked
to vote money for the policies outlined, and they will be asked to authorise the spending of
the people's money, not according to how the people want it spent, but according to how the
National Government believes it should be spent. In the course of the debate the Opposition
is not able to put forward an alternative budget, even though some Government members
would like to pick the brains of Opposition members. It is not the Opposition's intention or
objective to put forward an alternative set of ideas; by your rulings, Mr Speaker, the
Opposition is prohibited from doing just that. Both you and the Deputy Speaker have
consistently ruled that the House can debate only what is in the document before us, not


## p. 1705 (#161) ###########################################

28 July
1705
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
what should be in it. We on this side of the House could say what should and should not be in
the Budget, but we are not allowed to debate that. I hope that Government members will
take heed of your ruling and stop shouting out for ideas, and stop asking the Labour Party to
write their policies for them.
It would not be so bad if, in this time of crisis, the Budget demonstrated some sense of
objective. It is a meandering document, devoid of purpose and direction; it is filled with the
vague economic platitudes beloved by the Prime Minister, such as "fine tuning" and other
silly words that are quite meaningless in a realistic sense. One observer has called the Budget
a document of illusions. It is a hodge-podge of different departmental claims and differing
departmental attitudes, all finally approved, and then slashed by an agreed policy percentage
in Cabinet, regardless of their relative merits and any overriding policy.
The Budget is a monument to muddlement. My impression is that there is no sense of
urgency, nor any sense of purpose in what it is supposedly trying to realise. It shows no
realisation of the effect of the declining living standards of the young, the old, the single, the
married, or the widowed, who met last night in Wellington to protest about their exclusion
from any consideration. The Budget shows no realisation of the declining standards of the
sick or of the fall-off in investment. There is no realisation of the industrial collapse in the
building industry, in the housing industry, or even in the Government's much beloved sector
of money moving. There is no realisation that two or three companies that are advertising on
television at present are on the verge of the same sort of collapse that has affected many
companies in New Zealand during the last 18 months under the National Government.
There is no recognition of the collapse in employment and employment opportunities, which
is indicated by a mass exodus from New Zealand of unparalleled dimensions-the desertion
of our country by our own people, our brothers and sisters. There is no plan in the Budget to
stop this massive outpouring of labour, this massive cost, this massive educational drain.
One of the Budget's illusions is incentives to exporters. However, when one looks at the
incentives one finds they are on the never-never plan-you may get them in 1978, you may
get them in 1979, but we are looking to 1980 before we give them. In other words, the
Government is saying, “Keep us in power and you may get something out of us, but you will
get nothing out of this Budget."
In trading matters the Budget reflects the Government's general lack of understanding
and lack of finesse. It reflects the Government's inflexibility, and stubbornness-if you like,
its pigheadedness. It demonstrates the Government's inexperience in overseas trade. For
example, the Government has created a diplomatic post in, of all places, Bahrain in the
Persian Gulf. Bahrain has a population of 220 000, and the diplomatic post is to serve the
whole of the Middle East. There is a failure to understand the importance of prestige in trade
negotiations, because nobody on the other side of the House has any real grasp of what
business is really about. Bahrain is a warehouse. It is an entrepreneurial State; it is a "Mr 10
percent". The Government intends to sit on the backs of New Zealand exporters to the Gulf.
It is going to rip off New Zealand exporters to the tune of whatever the percentage is—and it
is certainly a great deal more than 10 percent in the Middle East, as the Deputy Prime
Minister knows. It will be a charge on all our exports to the Gulf. Our goods will simply be
landed there and will then be shipped somewhere else, because there are only 220 000 people
in Bahrain, compared with 34 000 000 people in Egypt and probably about 90 000 000 in the
area, who will be asked to pay the commission. I do not know who will get the commission,
but that is what will happen. This is an example of the inexperience, the misjudgment, and
the mismanagement of the Government.
The position is similar with NAFTA. The Australian Foreign Minister has been here
today, and I have here a copy of the Australian Financial Review dated 22 July, which
virtually laughs at the threat made by the Prime Minister of New Zealand over what New
Zealand intends to do to Australia. When you want to trade with people you do not threaten
them; you might cajole them, you might induce them to trade, but you do not threaten. Has
any member been into a grocery shop where the proprietor has pulled out a pistol and said,
"If you don't buy Gregg's instant coffee you will not get out of the shop"? It is a ridiculous
attitude, but typical of the Government's lack of understanding of the fundamentals of trade.
The position is similar with oil negotiations. We remember the levy of $3 a barrel, and
we remember how the Government had to eat its words because the Prime Minister wanted
to play Dr Mussadeq. What is the Government doing now? I would have welcomed public
participation, I would have welcomed public enterprise in oil exploration, but when one
examines the proposal a little more closely one finds that the New Zealand taxpayers are
shouldering the burden for Shell-BP-Todd exploration, among others. We will not benefit


## p. 1706 (#162) ###########################################

1706
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
from the profits that will be made if oil is discovered. We will foot the bill for the
exploration, and the oil companies will save $11 million, which the taxpayers will pay.
I like the idea of public enterprise, and it is time we had it. If we do not have it in New
Zealand, we will not survive in the present world. Nor will we survive in the present world if
the Government continues to surrender our initiatives, our sovereignty, and our integrity to
foreign investors. The Budget has no sense of national purpose. I hope I have demonstrated
that it is dedicated to a sense of international or multi-national purpose, because it serves
those interests so well.
The Budget makes little pretence of helping families, or those on low or fixed incomes.
In the dismay and despair of some of our people there is a feeling that we have been here
before. We went through this 10 years ago under the same tired Ministers and under the
same tired management. In fact, we have been through it all too many times under Tory
Administrations. Added to this is the destruction of our living standards, the destruction of
our way of life, and the destruction of our international standing and the respect in which
New Zealand was held by the rest of the world. All we are recognised for now is for lending
money to, because we cannot plan, we cannot run our own economy. We have to borrow
from overseas.
We have been told by some bankers, by the OECD, by the International Monetary
Fund-you name them, they are there-how to manage our economy, because the Govern-
ment is totally incapable of managing our affairs. These are not solely my impressions. A
recent OECD report on the New Zealand economy, published a couple of days ago in the
National Business Review, describes New Zealand's recession under the National Govern-
ment as the worst in the country's history. The report states that New Zealand policymakers
are very nearly impotent, because New Zealand is drifting inexorably on the ebb tide of
world trade and policy. The Government has no understanding whatever of trade or
economic management. The report states: "For example, the terms of trade drop recorded
between 1973 and 1975, 41 percent, was greater than the 35 percent decline witnessed
between 1929 and 1931, the great depression, and while the volume of exports fell by 5.5
percent from 1973 to 1975 it never declined in the years of the pre-war depression." Who was
the Government?
The report is said to be pessimistic. This is the report of the OECD; these are your
overlords, boys. Well, New Zealanders are pessimistic about any improvement under this
Government. The report says that New Zealand is unlikely to recover fully. We know that.
The OECD report paints a gloomy picture of growth, and shows how policy has clearly
contributed to, if not led, the recession of the last 2 years. Here are foreign observers looking
at New Zealand's economic management. Those guys, who are top-class people managing
the German and Dutch economies-the European economies-say that the National
Government's economic policy has clearly contributed to, if not led, the last 2 years of
recession in New Zealand.
Mr H. N. Austin: Where did you get that from?
Mr O'BRIEN: From the OECD report. If the member had been awake and listening, he
might have understood what I was talking about. The OECD report further criticises the
National Government's monetary policy; it criticises its import licensing policy; it criticises
its wage policy; it criticises its balance of payments policy; and it criticises its inability to
forecast accurately. In his attack on the Budget, the Leader of the Opposition pointed out
the total inability of the National Government to forecast the directions in which its policies
are taking this country. This inability to manage comes through constantly in the message
from the OECD. What a mess! We do not need the OECD to tell us this; everybody in the
House knows it. Members sitting on the crossbenches opposite, in spite of their yelping
because they are a little hurt, must know the truth of these things. They have been told it in
their caucus, and they have been told how to deal with it. They have been told how to shout
down the Opposition, because that is the technique used by their leader.
Like many members of this House, I have had a little business experience-not in money
moving, not in the uncreative areas of profit without production, but in more general
company activity, which concerns production, employment, and distribution. The National
Party likes to refer to our country as a private company. It likes the analogy of the
Government's being the board of directors and the population's being the shareholders. I
find that a little distasteful, because companies, by their nature, operate predominantly for
profit, whereas a country should be managed for the common good of all the people. But let
us look at it on the chosen ground of members opposite; let us look at it on the basis of the
board of directors of a company.


## p. 1707 (#163) ###########################################

28 July
1707
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Looking at the Budget in that way, we come to the conclusion that the first answer is
either that the directors or the management ought to be sacked for total incompetence, or
that the shareholders should fire the directors for complicity and culpable mismanagement.
What benefits have the shareholders received? First, their incomes were slashed and then
the value of their incomes declined; secondly, the profits have gone to the mortgagors; and,
thirdly, indebtedness has swollen to an immense all-time record. There has been a mad
borrowing spree by the board of directors-if you want to call the Government that—and an
immense increase of 52 percent in the cost of debt servicing. In addition, investments have
evaporated and capital equipment-schools, roads, hospitals-has been allowed to deterior-
ate. Few companies could survive that type of economic mismanagement.
But this country, regrettably, is not a private company. It is made up of men, women,
and children—all of whom are suffering on account of the way some unidentifiable person
wants New Zealand. The Mangere by-election showed what the sufferers in the city think.
Unfortunately, there is not, for this company, any annual general meeting. We do not have
the opportunity to throw out the directors or to impeach them. Instead, the bumbling
management has employed a Madison Avenue type of public relations group to soft-soap the
shareholders with glossy brochures in a manner that would do credit to the shifty shysters of
old-time Chicago. If the real result was not so tragic in human terms, we might think of it
simply as a lesson we have learnt the hard way.
As a nation, we have consistently spent more than we have earned. The Prime Minister
was proud of that in 1972, because he said, "We have spent it all." That is the kind of
economic mismanagement the Labour Government inherited in 1972 and with which it had
to deal. In honesty, I do not think that members opposite actually like wrecking the
economy. I do not think they like chasing trained New Zealanders out of their own country
or wrecking New Zealand's international standing, but they just do not seem to know how
else to act. They do not like having to tell young New Zealanders to save $12,000 before they
can consider buying a home; they do not like sorting out solo mothers any more than they
enjoy their policy of kicking an Islander once a day or kicking a trade unionist or a State
house tenant once a day. It is just that they know no other way.
Mr Comber: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to the observations of
the member for Island Bay, in which, if I heard him correctly, he alleged that members on
this side of the House might have been kicking Islanders once a day. I think that is grossly
out of order, and could lead to some retaliation from this side of the House. I take great
exception to that comment, if it was directed to members on this side of the House. I invite
you to rule on the point of order, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: I have no clear precedent on this matter except one of my own, but I
have sought in the past to exclude the intrusion of racism into this Chamber. It is largely
foreign to our country, and I think all members of the House should respect and appreciate
that fact and not endeavour to denigrate the position for political gain.
Mr O'BRIEN: I was referring only to some cartoons I saw; that is all. The actions of the
National Government have inflamed the record inflation from which we now suffer, not only
by bringing in massive increases in nearly all Government charges, but by permitting and
encouraging interest rates to reach desperately high levels. Yesterday, local bodies were put
on the treadmill with a soaring 10.5 percent interest rate and the staggering debt servicing
charge that will go with it. When I was on the Wellington City Council some years ago, the
percentage of rate income-even at that stage, when there were reasonable interest rates-
spent in servicing debts in non-creative activity, in just worshipping at the shrine of
moneylenders, was 23 percent. Heaven alone knows what it will be with the 10.5 percent
interest rate that local government will now be asked to pay.
Let us have a look at the aid to local bodies featured in the Budget. We are told that the
rates of the average ratepayer will be tax-deductible to the extent of something like 50c a
week. The massive interest rate increases for local bodies will have to be passed on to the
ratepayer, so for every 50c saved he will be charged $1 as a result of the National
Government's policy.
Let us look at the assistance to public passenger transport. Why is it given for capital
replacement? Even the Mayor of Wellington commented, "It is disappointing perhaps,
although not really surprising"-and that is interesting—“to learn that central government
has made a clear decision not to make a direct contribution to the operating losses at this
time." For the buses, the city council should have a sinking fund from which to replace
capital equipment. All that is happening here is a little bit of what the member for Roskill
calls a cosmetic operation. It is designed to mislead the public into thinking that it is going to


## p. 1708 (#164) ###########################################

1708
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
get something for nothing.
If the Government intends to fund anything-and it has got $6.8 million in the
estimates, but I doubt if it will spend any of it-why is the money not given to cover
operating losses, rather than for capital replacement? I want to know that, and, as we are
going to vote this money eventually, I think we are entitled to ask the Government why it
chose capital replacement. Are its friends in the motor industry, rather than in local
government? The answer might well be yes. If the Government wants to help local
authorities, it should do so by assisting with operational losses-a direct assistance to
ratepayers. Local authorities are not so concerned about capital equipment replacement, but
they must be concerned at the great leap in interest rates, which will affect the operating
costs of their buses. All the Government has done is tell local authorities that tomorrow will
be Friday and they knew that already, surely.
The Government has done nothing to assist local government in housing; there is no
relief whatever in the Budget that will affect the present rentals charged by local authorities
in Wellington, which amount to $46 a week in some cases. Why has the Government not
tried to help? The people in public housing need assistance, as they are the people on the
lowest incomes; they are subject now to the biggest rip-off we have ever seen. The weekly
rents of $46, which are being charged now in Arlington Street, will increase again, because
local authorities will have to meet this massive jump in interest rates as a result of the
decision yesterday. If it did not want to spend any money on local government but still
wanted to do something useful, the Government could have promised to revive the
members' interests legislation, and remove public unease from that area; or it could lift the
clamp on capital works, which are incurring massive debts, a future shock for local
authorities.
So New Zealand suffers, and what is it suffering from? Every New Zealander will tell
you that it is inflation, and the interest rates that fire it. Inflation is robbery by stealth,
whether it is official policy or otherwise. It is not always the Government's fault, as some of
it is imported—although not to the extent that this Government says; but in many instances
it is the Government's fault, because of its economic mismanagement. Much of this can be
identified. When it is adopted as a policy, inflation is the paying of today's bills with the
devalued money of tomorrow. We can see that this is the way the Government hopes to
finance its superannuation scheme. Inflation has gone mad because Labour's superannua-
tion scheme was ended; beneficial saving was replaced with spending, and no consequent or
subsequent saving has been introduced by the Government.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): The member for Island Bay made no contribution at all to the
debate. In his usual way, he made some outrageous statements, some of which I shall spend
one or two minutes in answering. The member drew an analogy between the country and a
company and said that the Government is like a board of directors. What he did not say is
that, when this board of directors took over, the company was in the hands of the receivers
as a result of 3 years under Labour. The honourable member referred to an article in the
National Business Review about the OECD's gloomy picture as a backdrop to the Budget.
What the member did not quote from that article was this: "... and in its report gave very
high marks to our economic management". The most significant point in the report was that
the economic management was sound, and high marks were awarded to it.
He spoke of the attack made by the Leader of the Opposition on the Budget. That was
an extraordinary comment, because members cannot recall that any attack has been made by
any member on that side. We might recall a very low-key, hesitant, puzzled comment on the
Budget from the Leader of the Opposition, during which four members of his own team
were observed to be asleep in the House. The member for Island Bay asked the House to
stop asking the Labour Party for its policy. The country stopped asking the Labour Party for
anything in 1975, when there was the biggest political reversal in the country's history.
I want to refer tonight to that part of the Budget that deals with energy. The Budget
presents a package of policies aimed at a more stable economic future. One of the objectives
of those policies, which are given on page 5, is "to encourage better utilisation of our
scarce resources". I can recall how Labour made decisions about energy. Remember
Norman Kirk's intervention on the power station decision at Te Atatu? A fellow by the
name of Bassett was the Labour member for Waitemata at that time, and he established a
Labour Government liaison committee with the local people to help smooth out the
establishment of this very large power station on the shores of Waitemata Harbour. Kirk
intervened and decided at an emotional meeting at Te Atatu that the power station should
be built not at Te Atatu, but in someone else's back yard. The member for Waitemata at the


## p. 1709 (#165) ###########################################

28 July
1709
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
time, Bassett, turned a full somersault, because one moment he was for the station and the
next moment he was dead against it. Notwithstanding that event, National won the
Waitemata seat in 1975, and the present member has proved to be outstanding. The Labour
Party in Te Atatu need only select Bassett as its candidate in 1978, and National will win that
seat as well. We look forward to that.
The handling of the proposal for the power station by the Labour Government is only
one example of its political ineptitude during its 3-year term. Although the Prime Minister at
the time, the Rt. Hon. Norman Kirk, was prepared to intervene personally, the Labour
Government was not prepared to allow the matter to be examined, using the normal town
and country planning procedures in the way the present National Government is doing with
the Waiau Pa station. Labour's management was inept in many areas; it was weakest in the
economy and in its response to the energy crisis. It failed to bring together the energy
portfolios under one Minister, let alone in a single ministry. It had a separate Minister of
Energy Resources, a separate Minister of Electricity, and a separate Minister of Mines. It
had 2 years to bring together a positive response to the crisis that was created in 1973 by the
OPEC countries in their distribution of oil. Not one person nor one household escaped the
problems caused by the oil crisis and by the Labour Government's handling of it.
The increased price of oil was the real factor that set off the worldwide inflation in 1973.
It could be argued that the OPEC countries did the world a good turn, because the increase
in the price of oil at the wellhead from $1 a barrel to more than $10 a barrel drew attention to
the non-renewable nature of oil as an energy source. The world had pretended not to know
that one day its oil resources must finally be depleted if people continued to depend on liquid
fuels to such a large degree for their life style. In New Zealand, for example, because oil was
cheap before 1973, it had largely replaced coal as a fuel. Our motorcars ran on oil, it was
used also for international transport, our new railway engines were diesel driven, and we
were using oil for home heating. Nobody gave much thought to the fact that one day the
supplies would no longer be available. In 1972, our bill for imported oil was $94 million. This
year, as the Budget stated, it will be approximately $550 million, or $1.5 million a day for 365
days of the year. Not only has the price of oil escalated, but in a CIA report a short time ago
President Carter was advised that by 1985 the demand would exceed the supply. Members
should dwell for a moment on the significance of that. In this country, researchers have told
us that if we continue to use our coal and gas at the present rate we will exhaust New
Zealand's large reserves of fossil fuels by 2030.
Several factors point to the reason why urgent changes must be made to our pattern of
energy use. First, there is the escalating cost of imported fuels and its effect on inflation;
secondly, we must reduce our dependence on the non-renewable energy source of fossil
fuels; thirdly, by 1990 a 1500 MW thermal power station will be needed every 3 years if we
continue our present fast rate of growth in energy requirements; and, fourthly, we must
change our policies to avoid the imminent use of nuclear power.
A recent study carried out by the New Zealand Energy Research and Development
Committee, chaired by Dr Colin Maiden, Vice-Chancellor of Auckland University, suggests
three possible scenarios for energy use in New Zealand. The first is called continuation, and
involves an extension of the trends, policies, and attitudes we have had for the past 50 years.
The second involves a lower New Zealand pollution strategy. The minimisation of pollution
is a primary objective in governmental, business, and personal decisions; a small amount of
economic growth must be sacrificed to achieve this. The final scenario is limited growth, and
represents a strategy by which New Zealand can reduce its dependence on the rest of the
world for energy and other resources by slower population growth, slower economic growth,
and switching to indigenous renewable resources.
These models predict that New Zealand's population will move from its present figure
of approximately 3 100 000 to 5 000 000 in 2025 under the continuation scenario, and to 3 700
000 in 2025 under the limited growth scenario. In the interests of maintaining our slow
growth figures we would gladly sacrifice the two members opposite who are trying to
interject. A good example of the different results is that, in 2025, we would use eight times
the present amount of imported energy under the continuation scenario, whereas we would
not need to import energy at all under the limited growth scenario. Those are the extremes
between which our energy policies must develop. Agriculture will grow faster under the
limited growth scenario, and would suffer the most under the low population scenario, and
so on.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Say that again?
Mr BIRCH: The important point is that the structure of the New Zealand economy


## p. 1710 (#166) ###########################################

1710
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
would change significantly depending on the energy policies prosecuted by the Government.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Say that again?
Mr BIRCH: For the benefit of the agricultural spokesman on the other side, under the
limited growth scenario agriculture would grow the fastest, and under the low pollution
scenario it would grow the least. I suggest that the member should read the report of the
Maiden committee. Grabbing hold of the immediate problems as soon as it was elected to
office, the present Government brought all the energy portfolios under one Minister, who
has now introduced a Bill to bring those portfolios together under one ministry. I support
that move.
Possibly the most significant part of the Budget dealt with the energy policy. It drew
attention to the fact that electricity is expected to require a continuing capital outlay in the
next few years of approximately $300 million per annum, or about $100 per head of
population per year. That is the size of the electricity growth. The Government has moved to
accelerate the search for oil and natural gas. It has also moved to encourage the use of
natural gas by making subsidies available for the connection of new mains and by introducing
interest-free loans of up to $400 for the purchase of gas appliances. It has recognised the
importance of saving energy by insisting on home insulation and making increased loans
available to help home builders provide that necessity. A far-sighted contribution of $70,000
was made to a pilot scheme for Kapuni. New policies were announced to encourage power
boards to develop small local hydro stations of up to 50 MW each.
I emphasise the changes that have been made in the Budget, all of which are important
and will increase the momentum in the search for indigenous oil and natural gas: moves to
accelerate the use of natural gas by making subsidies directly available to distributing boards
or gas companies; direct loans to consumers of up to $400 interest-free for the purchase of
gas appliances; and the recognition of the importance of insulation by making increased
loans available to help home builders.
Notwithstanding these changes, far-reaching though they may be, the Minister has
announced that he intends to publish later this year a comprehensive draft energy policy of
goals and guidelines. The Minister spoke about energy in the Budget debate earlier tonight,
and emphasised the part that this policy statement will play. He intends to allow the public to
contribute towards that policy. In the short time the Minister has held the portfolios, he has
made a number of very important moves.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Public relations.
Mr BIRCH: We have seen more momentum in energy under the present Minister than
we saw in the 3 years the member for Petone was the Minister in the Labour Government. In
those 3 years, during which the energy crisis arose, we saw no significant changes in energy.
The challenge the Labour Government faced was to pick up the problems and do something
with them. We lost 2 years under the Labour Government when nothing was done to reduce
our dependence on liquid fuels and imported oils. Now we are seeing very significant
changes, which will directly reduce our dependence on liquid fuels and imported oils. I invite
the New Zealand public to take up the Minister's challenge to contribute. Some organisa-
tions have already done so. The Friends of the Earth have gone to a great deal of trouble to
produce an energy policy statement designed to make a positive contribution towards our
energy policy.
I heard one Labour member say tonight that the Labour Party is full of ideas, and I
invite members opposite to make a positive and constructive contribution to the first public
draft. It will be interesting to find out whether any more energy ideas come forth from the
Labour Party than in the 3 years it was the Government. I remind the country that two of
those years were directly after the energy crisis, and no progress at all was made on an
energy policy. The Labour Party can now make up for lost time by making a contribution,
and I invite it to do so. I doubt whether its contribution will be very positive or worth while.
The goals and guidelines document is necessary to bring together the total strategy of
energy policies. I have absolutely no doubt that that is exactly what it will do. It will
determine, in a flexible way, the scenario that New Zealand should follow. The Labour
Government was too short-sighted to make any moves in this direction. In bringing our
energy policy together, we must ensure that the direction the policies will take and the
effects they will have on New Zealand society will be those the New Zealand people want. I
am sure that that will be the objective.
Somewhere among the three options described by Dr Maiden's committee lies New
Zealand's energy future. Unquestionably, New Zealand must move towards greater self-
sufficiency with its indigenous resources and ensure adequacy of liquid fuels. Vigorous


## p. 1711 (#167) ###########################################

28 July
1711
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
programmes for the use and expansion of our most valuable indigenous resources, such as
the Maui gas field, are already under way, and the coal industry has been rejuvenated. A
million tonnes of coal per year will be provided for the Huntly power station, and a further
800 000 tonnes of coal annually will be required by New Zealand Steel for its expansion as a
totally integrated plant. I invite the House to consider those two figures-1 000 000 tonnes
for the Huntly power station and a further 800 000 tonnes for New Zealand Steel. Those two
quantities will almost double the coal consumption in New Zealand, they will take it from its
present level of just above 2 000 000 tonnes to just over 4 000 000 tonnes. I emphasise that
coal production will be doubled, and most of it will come out of the Waikato basin just south
of my electorate.
There has been vigorous expansion of research to prove our coal resources over the past
12 months under the National Government, and more funds are made available in the
Budget to prove future resources. Obviously, the proving of New Zealand's coal resources is
an important part of determining the size of our indigenous resources. The efficient winning
of coal from the countryside is now an immediate task facing the Government. Underground
techniques wastefully leave large quantities of coal in the ground, and new developments are
necessary to ensure that we win it in the most efficient way and that this resource is properly
protected and recognised. We should recognise, too, that opencast coal mines can create
environmental challenges and damage, in some cases, and also conflict with other land uses
from time to time. New Zealand, under its new Minister, is now investing large sums of
money-more than $1 million a year, or twice as much as last year-in research and
development. The Minister referred to the details of that in his speech earlier tonight.
The Maiden committee, together with various Government departments, has consi-
dered both the use of conventional resources and the development of unconventional energy
resources. Solar energy in particular appears to have early potential, and the use of solar
water-heating panels to reduce electricity bills has an immediate attraction. It is interesting
to note-and I remind the Minister of this-that in President Carter's new energy policy
substantial tax incentives are made for home owners to install energy-saving devices such as
solar panels. I am sure the Minister will consider that for future policy. The Minister of
Energy Resources predicts that by the year 2000 solar heating should save 9 percent on New
Zealand's electricity output.
We now know that energy farming for liquid fuels from timber is capable of substituting
for imported oils. We were recently told that enough liquid fuel could be provided from
about 600 000 hectares to substitute totally for the present level of imported oils. New
Zealand is in a position to consider that as a substitute for the use of crude oil. Wind energy,
tidal energy, and other forms of solar energy are in the much more distant future, and cannot
be expected to make a significant contribution to our energy resources in the next generation
or so.
It is encouraging to remember that the best form of renewable energy is the sun, which,
after all, comes up every day and will continue to do so, its radiant energy substantially
undiminished, for billions of years. Solar energy can heat, it can cool, it can convert salt
water into fresh water, and it can generate power. Every week the sun contributes as much
energy to the earth as would be obtained from burning all our fossil fuels in one week—it is a
tremendous resource. It has an element of certainty in its use that underlines the importance
of continuing to work towards harnessing its power as the ultimate energy resource. One
should not conclude without recognising the great developments New Zealand has made in
harnessing geothermal energy, in particular. We are one of the world's leaders in that
technology, and I am particularly glad that the Minister has included in the Budget funds to
speed up the proving of our geothermal resources.
Mr O'Brien: Will he spend them?
Mr BIRCH: Of course. If the member for Island Bay had looked at last year's
expenditure he would have confidence in the programme for the development of geothermal
production and the expansion of proving that resource. He should also recognise—
Mr O'Brien: Has the member recognised that the available funds were not fully spent
last year?
Mr BIRCH: Obviously, the member for Island Bay has not read the estimates. I suggest
that he go home tonight and read them.
Mr O'Brien: I have read them.
Mr BIRCH: Then he should reread them, and provide his colleagues with the informa-
tion he gains, so that the incorrect information given to the House tonight can be corrected. I
pay tribute to the New Zealand Electricity Department for the way it has developed hydro-


## p. 1712 (#168) ###########################################

1712
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
electricity. Again, we are one of the world's leaders in harnessing that resource. The Budget
provides for the expansion of hydro-electricity by initiating a policy whereby electricity
boards can enter into the development of small hydro stations with an output of up to 50
MW. That source is capable of eventually doubling hydro-electricity in New Zealand. We
are told that the potential for small hydros is approximately 3000 MW. By developing our
small hydros, we would gain almost as much electrical energy again as we currently obtain
from hydro-electricity. That in itself is an encouraging course for this Government to follow.
Hon. T. F. Gill: That is exciting.
Mr BIRCH: Yes. All these efforts will allow us to move not only towards greater self-
sufficiency in energy, but away from a nuclear future. I remind the House that it was in 1974,
under the Labour Government, that, for the first time in New Zealand's history, nuclear
power stations were included in the power planning programme. The Opposition, which now
disclaims nuclear energy in its policy, included nuclear power in its energy planning when it
was in Government. That shows just how much reliability and trust one can put in the
Labour Party's policies. Who approved the power planning programme? It was the Labour
Government. Is the spokesman on energy, who is trying to interject, now saying that his
Government did not approve the plan brought forward by the power planning committee?
The previous Labour spokesman on energy got the sack, showing just how much the Labour
Government thought of him. The energy crisis is one of the greatest challenges faced by
mankind. In New Zealand, the Labour Government lost the opportunity of introducing
policies that would meet this challenge; but in the present Government we have Ministers
with the fortitude and farsightedness necessary to develop policies for debate by the people
and, finally, for the welfare of future generations. This Budget takes a considerable step
forward in that direction.
Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon): I tend to agree with my colleague the member for
Henderson, and other Opposition speakers in this debate, who said that the Budget is an
itsy-bitsy document, negative in content. It is so negative that the itsy-bitsy yellow bikini
made popular by a pop group in the 1960s would more than cover its content. When
referring to a statement made by the previous speaker, the member for Franklin suggested
that, when the National Government took office, the New Zealand economy was in the
hands of the receivers. I can assure him that New Zealand was then in a better state than it is
now.
Hon. Members: Ha, ha!
Mrs BATCHELOR: I can tell him and other members opposite that when this National
Government took over from the Labour Administration there was less unemployment, less
industrial unrest, the overseas deficit was decreasing, export prices had started to recover,
the volume of imports was well down and the Maui agreement, which gave New Zealand the
fifteenth-largest natural gasfield in the world, had been signed. Members opposite should
consider these matters before making derogatory comments about the Labour Government.
All this was done in 3 short years, after 12 years of National Government mismanagement.
Members opposite can interject as much as they like. Do they disagree that there were 3
years of a Labour Government and 12 years of mismanagement by a National Government?
That statement would be hard to fight.
The actions taken by the last Labour Administration have now been negated in every
possible way by a Government that does not really know how to govern, and that certainly
has little respect for the people it supposedly represents. In opening the debate for this side
of the House, the Leader of the Opposition said all that had to be said in a few words when
he pointed out that we have a record Government-a Government that holds the record for
inflation, the record for industrial unrest, the record for overseas borrowing, for emigration,
and for taxation.
It certainly has a record for inflation. The Government must take top marks for that,
because it has been caused by the Government's own actions. Every action the Government
has taken has in some way increased our rate of inflation. First, we had the removal of
subsidies. No thought at all was given to the effects that would have on the people, nor was
there any thought for the New Zealand scene. The Government just removed the subsidies
and forgot about the people on lower incomes. The removal of the subsidies cost the people
$252 million, yet provided no relief for those same people. No extra income was added to the
pay packets to give back to those people some of that $252 million. There was no easing of
the tax structure to ensure an equitable distribution of money to the people. All the people
received were added costs. They paid extra on all the articles that had increased in price, and
they still paid the additional taxation that had been going towards paying for the subsidies.


## p. 1713 (#169) ###########################################

28 July
1713
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
You just cannot win with a Government that takes that type of action.
The Budget does nothing to rectify the continuing increases that people are having to
face in their cost of living. The latest quarterly increase in the consumer price index speaks
for itself. That increase is an unfavourable comment on this Government's policies on
inflation, but the real losers are the consumers. They suffer when inflation is assisted by
Government action-and it has been assisted by the actions of this Government. It increased
Government charges; that alone helped to increase the inflation rate. The increases in
electricity charges, in petrol, alcohol, and motor vehicle prices, the increased charges for
motor registration, the increases in the prices of grocery items as well as of basic foods-all
these left the consumer trying to cope with a rate of inflation that was not of his own making.
The prime responsibility for the inflation rate rests with the Government. It does not
seem to realise that you cannot fight rising prices by raising prices, but that is exactly what
this Government is doing, and has done time and again. It raised electricity charges and
postal rates, but it cannot or will not recognise that that action is causing inflation instead of
combating it. Unless the Government is prepared to hold the prices I have mentioned in the
areas over which it has some control, it will continue to hold a record for causing inflation.
The Budget makes no effort to alter the tax structure to give relief to family units. Some
relief is given to families with children under the age of 10 years, and the Government has
shown its complete lack of understanding of the needs of the family by deciding that a family
unit consists only of people with children under 10 years. Most people with children know
that the most expensive time is when they reach the age of 10, because then they need more
clothes and school uniforms, and extra food for growing bodies. All the extras that cost so
much begin to have an impact in the pre-teen years, and continue through the teens. The
Government's taxation policies show quite clearly that it is unaware of, or does not care
about, the average family unit.
I wonder if the Cabinet committee on family affairs was involved in any of the Budget
decisions. If it was, I suggest it should resign, because it obviously did not know what it was
talking about; if it was not, that is an indictment of the Prime Minister, because he should
have ensured that the family received a better deal than it did.
A tax on domestic clothes dryers has been imposed under the guise of saving power. But
they are not using power yet-they are still in the shops waiting to be bought. If not one
more clothes dryer was sold, it would not make any difference to the saving of electricity. In
the South Island, that tax will not persuade people to use gas, because natural gas is not
available, yet the people in the South Island will still have to pay the extra tax on electric
clothes dryers. The climate of the South Island makes a clothes dryer very important if there
are young children and babies in the house; nevertheless, the South Island will be penalised
by this part of the Budget. I believe this tax is just a rake-off for the Government.
The Government seems to have a policy that, if you cannot tax it, you forget it. A boy of
about 12 or 13 years asked me recently if I knew why the Government had made no move
towards solar power, and when I said no, his answer was that it could not find a way of taxing
the sun. I think that sums up the Government's attitude.
Cigarettes and liquor also received attention, and we were told that the levy of 1c would
be spent on health. We were also told that more impetus should be given to primary health
care and the development of community health services. Those are fine words, with which I
agree, but I suggest that something concrete should be done to make sure they do not remain
only fine words. The primary health policy should be to prevent illness among children and
to promote the health of our school children, but this policy appears to find no favour with
the Minister of Health. He considers the present system of referring children to the public
health nurses to be satisfactory. I for one do not agree with the Minister. When I read that
the World Health Organisation's child mortality rating gave New Zealand the twenty-sixth
place-
Mr D. M. J. Jones: What about car accidents?
Mrs BATCHELOR: I presume other parts of the world have car accidents-that does
not change the position at all. As far as child mortality is concerned, New Zealand has been
given the twenty-sixth rating and is placed behind countries such as Hong Kong and Puerto
Rico.
Mr Lithgow: Get your facts right.
Mrs BATCHELOR: I have my facts right, I can give the member for Palmerston North
the figures of the World Health Organisation if he requires them, and if he is capable of
reading them. I am sure that most members opposite, regardless of some of the rather
puerile interjections, would agree that it is time the Government acted to improve the health
6-Vol. 412


## p. 1714 (#170) ###########################################

1714
28 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
of children. Teachers, parents, and health professionals are concerned about the drop in the
health standards of children, and it is time the Government showed some concern. A recent
survey of school children in the Auckland-Thames area by a Dr Lyon showed that only one
child in three was healthy. I did not think that New Zealand would ever reach that position.
It is an indictment of our society and the Government responsible for that society. When
asked to comment on that fact, the Minister of Health said, "The present system had worked
satisfactorily, generally speaking." If the survey findings are correct, the situation is anything
but satisfactory. When a survey of New Zealand school children shows a high incidence of
previously undetected heart defects, ear diseases, scabies, obesity, and sight problems, it is
time for the Government to get its head out of the sand and take notice of the findings.
Government action is needed in child care, but the Budget does not mention the health of
New Zealand's younger citizens.
New Zealanders once considered that they were governed by the Budget from year to
year. The people looked with interest to the contents of the Budget, and settled down to
living by the decisions of that document. Now, New Zealanders are not quite so sure of
where they are. They know that the presentation of the Budget might well be the forerunner
of a series of mini-Budgets, and they have hardly finished licking their wounds when they
have to put up with the next mini-Budget.
The Government is a record breaker in industrial unrest. It would be interesting if
members opposite took the time to check and compare the figures each month in the
Abstract of Statistics. In 1976, the last full year available for comparison, the figure for
worker days lost is up by 113 percent on that for the previous year. The figures do not take
into account the so-called non-industrial stoppages, as the Department of Statistics does not
include stoppages in which a demand is not made by workers on their employer. The figures
provided by the monthly Abstract of Statistics for disputes show that in 1975 there were
214 000, whereas in 1976 there were more than 457 000, an increase of 113 percent. If we add
to those the figures for non-industrial stoppages, which in 1975 were about 14 000 and in
1976 were about 69 000, we have an increase of 391 percent. The figures are self-
explanatory, although I realise that members opposite might have some trouble in working
them out.
Of course, these figures do not take into account the great unemployment that New
Zealand has to contend with. The country should be told that for the 2 weeks to 15 July, the
number of registered unemployed rose by 10.2 percent, and in the same period the number
of persons on relief work rose by 6.8 percent.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: What's that in numbers?
Mrs BATCHELOR: I can give that to the Minister. I can tell him that in 2 weeks there
was a rise of more than 1000. That makes it sound even worse.
Mr Lithgow: Was that the fortnight's holiday at Christmas?
Mrs BATCHELOR: It was the first 2 weeks of July. Perhaps the honourable member
has his Christmas holidays in July; I should have thought that about 1 April would be more in
keeping. In the first 2 weeks of July, the number of registered unemployed was 6645 and
those on relief work numbered 7342. The combined total gives a rise of 1070 in 2 weeks.
After hearing those figures, one can easily see why the Government holds the record for
industrial unrest. We should also keep in mind the fact that married women who lose their
jobs do not register as unemployed, because they are not eligible for the unemployment
benefit. If they were, the figure would be even greater. If one adds to those figures the huge
number of migrants from New Zealand—and for the year to 31 May 1977 they numbered
22 000-one starts to get a true picture of New Zealand's unemployment. It shows industrial
unrest under this Government in better perspective. It is unfortunate that the people we
represent are likely to suffer a further erosion of their living standards. One can only hope
that this itsy-bitsy document is not the forerunner of an even more harmful mini-Budget,
because, frankly, the average person cannot stand any further belt tightening.
Mr Malcolm: The average person can't stand the member for Avon.
Mrs BATCHELOR: Well, that is a moot point. It could well be that the average person
understands the member for Avon, who speaks his language, a lot better than he under-
stands the member who interjected. When I say that the average person cannot stand any
more belt tightening, I refer mainly to the family. I shall relate my remarks to the consumer
price index. I realise that it is very hard to find an average family, but if we apply an average
wage of $121, which is slightly above the average weekly wage, to a single-income family
with two children over 10, and if we add the family benefit of $6 and take away the taxation
of $27.14, that family is left with $100. Even if the family saves nothing and spends all its


## p. 1715 (#171) ###########################################

28 July
1715
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
income, according to the consumer price index pattern there is very little it would be able to
buy.
We worked out an expenditure pattern for them, so that each week their total
expenditure was $17.82 for food, $14.31 for the household operation, and $8.55 for wearing
apparel. It is interesting to find out just how the money spent on food is divided up. For
instance, if they are allowed $2.91 for fruit and vegetables, they can buy some apples, frozen
peas, a cabbage, carrots, and potatoes-they are underspent by 6c, so they have 6c left over
from that lot-but they have no tomatoes, onions, silverbeet, pumpkins, celery, bananas,
oranges, or canned fruit, none of which can be afforded on their budget. Those people do
not think that that is New Zealand the way they were to get it, and they are a wee bit irate
about that. If they spend $5.19 on meat, fish, and poultry, they can have enough mince for
four meals, enough sausages for two meals, and some fish for one meal. That comes to $5.24,
so they have overspent their budget by 5c, but they have no beef, hogget, lamb, pork, bacon,
ham, tinned fish, or chicken. Again, it is not New Zealand the way they thought they were
getting it.
When we get to the dairy products, this is where it really hurts. They have allowed $1.98
for dairy products, so our family of four takes three pints of milk a day; that comes to $1.89.
They have 8c over. They can afford one egg, but that is all. No cream, butter, or cheese
come into that. In other words, they cannot afford even the basic items, let alone what we
deem to be luxuries. Six loaves of sliced bread cost $1.98. Not much is left in their family
budget for such items as biscuits, breakfast cereals, or the various other items that would
come under flour and cereals. And the same goes right through.
The housing position is, of course, one of the worst. Their rent is $27.80 a week, and on
that amount of money they are obviously going to find it very hard to save enough for a
deposit on a home. If they could raise a $5,000 deposit, capitalise their family
benefit-thereby reducing their income-obtain $16,000 from the Housing Corporation, a
$6,500 second mortgage from the Post Office, and a personal loan of $1,000, they could
obtain a low-quality home, but the repayments would be about $48 a week. Obviously, they
have no option but to stay in their rented accommodation. Home ownership is out of the
question for them.
Again, our budget shows how difficult it is for the average person to live. This family has
$1.98 a week for fuel and light, but spend it all on electricity. Even then, they have to cut
back their consumption by about 30 percent. No money is left for coal, gas, or oil. The same
applies to furniture, and to floor coverings. As telephone rental fees cost $1.66, they have
already overspent their allowance of $1.39 for Post Office charges, so there will be no
postage, letters, parcels, or telegrams. Those costs are to be put up again. The average
couple will be worse off. The costs of travel to and from work will increase, whether or not
the couple have their own car. I suppose they can cut down on a packet of cigarettes, but it is
a pretty sad life if you cannot afford to have your cigarettes or your 7 oz glass of beer in a
public bar.
Miss Dewe: Does the member know how much has been spent on beer this year?
Mrs BATCHELOR: No, I do not. However, I do not begrudge it to the people who
work to make this country great, even if they are working under difficulties at present.
Health services have not even been considered in the average budget, neither have doctors'
fees or dental fees. We must take some note of the situation for those on a domestic purposes
benefit; not so much of the parent, perhaps, but of the child, who will suffer from the
decrease in the rate of benefit for the first 6 months.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.
69


## p. 1716 (#172) ###########################################

1716
29 July
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
FRIDAY, 29 JULY 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 9 a.m.
Prayers.
NOTICE OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to notice of
motion 17 on today's Order Paper, which refers to the National Government's Budget. Two
days ago I raised with you the question of whether this notice of motion was within the terms
of the Standing Orders, or whether it may contravene Standing Order 103(c) in that it
anticipated a discussion of the Order of the Day. I am not sure whether you have had an
opportunity to look at the notice of motion, but I still feel it is in clear contravention of the
Standing Orders, and I ask that the part that conflicts with the Standing Orders be deleted.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): I was rung by one of the people in the Clerk's office and asked
about the branch that Mr D. Shilton belonged to, and I apologised to the Clerk when I found
that it was the newspaper that was wrong, and not my copying from it-Mr Shilton belonged
to the Roskill branch. That was corrected, and I assumed there was nothing else wrong in the
notice of motion. Anyway, I do not think it anticipates discussion of an Order of the Day.
The delegate was complaining about something that was not in the Budget, and, as we all
know, when we are debating Bills we cannot discuss things that are not in them.
Mr SPEAKER: The question I considered was the citing of a non-existent electorate
branch member. I did not give any deep attention to the question of whether the notice of
motion anticipated an Order of the Day. If it did, it would be anticipation of the Budget
debate, and there is ample room for discussion on the Budget when virtually any economic
matter, including whether or not there is assistance for persons, may be debated. I think the
point is still fine here, and note that details of the Budget are not given. There is comment
about something that is not in the Budget, and I think there would have been justification if
one had excluded the notice of motion, but, as it is now in, I feel the matter is of such
marginal effect that I should not take the step of having the notice of motion struck off the
Order Paper.
TRUSTEE SAVINGS BANKS AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I move, That the Trustee Savings
Bank Amendment Bill be introduced. This Bill contains the amendments necessary for the
implementation of the measures announced in the Budget to give trustee savings banks the
freedom to set the structure of, and the interest rates on, investment and other term deposit
accounts. The changes in the Bill are complementary to those already implemented by
amendments to the Trustee Savings Banks Interest Order and Regulations. Clause 2
removes the interest-bearing deposit limits on all accounts except the farm ownership
account. The limit of $60,000 in respect of this account is retained, but provision has been
made for this limit to be increased by Order in Council. The provisions limiting to one the
number of accounts a depositor may have in any one class of account, and the requirement of
a trustee savings bank to give 3 months' notice of a reduction in an interest rate payable, are
also repealed. Clause 3 gives the trustee savings banks freedom to accept deposits, for a term
not less than 30 days, in such investment accounts or term deposits as each bank may wish to
offer. The Trustee Savings Banks Interest Order 1977 provides for the concurrence of the
Reserve Bank to changes in the interest rates payable and the conditions applying to such
deposits. The previous conditions relating to the breaking of investment account deposits
have been repealed.
The Bill is a straightforward one, giving effect to the Budget measures that are a further
step in the Government's policy of encouraging increased competition among financial
institutions in order to facilitate the development of an efficient and flexible financial system.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I have two questions and one
comment. The comment is that this is a recognition of continuing inflation. The size of the
various deposits upon which interest can be paid reflects those facts. Why is section 5 of the
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Act 1975 to be repealed? In the past the banks were
required to have in effect 3 months' notice of an intention to reduce interest rates, and that is
no longer applicable. Is this a reflection of the fact that other competing institutions have not


## p. 1717 (#173) ###########################################

29 July
1717
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Bill
had to do that on their term deposits? I am thinking more specifically of the call deposits, the
largest volume of savings, the form of savings that the ordinary small saver considers. Does
this mean that the banks are now free to reduce those at any time they want?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The Bill is in line with the
Government's election policy of giving more flexibility in this field, and bringing the
controlled and uncontrolled interest rates closer together, and this has been carried out.
There is not the slightest doubt that the institutions with controlled interest rates were very
much at a disadvantage as against those with uncontrolled rates, with results that were not
good for the economy. Indeed, some of the collapses in the financial sector were of
institutions with uncontrolled interest rates. By giving the trustee banks greater flexibility,
they have a greater ability to compete, which is in the long-term interest of the financial
sector. The honourable member is correct in his assumption that the reason for this change is
to put them on the same basis as other financial institutions.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): What is the logic behind the
argument that because there have been financial collapses among institutions where interest
rates are not controlled the solution to the problem is to make all institutions uncontrolled?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The logic should have been apparent
to a former Minister of Finance. This institution has a total Government guarantee.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
PRIVATE SAVINGS BANKS AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I move, That the Private Savings
Banks Amendment Bill be introduced. This Bill contains amendments necessary for the
implementation of the measures announced in the Budget to give private savings banks the
freedom to set the structure of, and the interest rates on, investment and other term deposit
accounts. The changes in the Bill complement those already implemented by changes in the
Private Savings Banks Regulations and Interest Order. Subclauses (1) and (4) of clause 2
remove the interest-bearing deposit limits on all accounts. Subclause (2) excludes term
deposits from interest payment conditions applicable to demand deposits only. Subclause (3)
repeals the section limiting to one the number of accounts a depositor may have in any
prescribed class of account. This is a straightforward Bill. It gives effect to the Budget
measures that are a further step in the Government's policy of encouraging competition
among financial institutions in order to facilitate the development of an efficient and flexible
financial system.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I recognise that the Bill
parallels the Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Bill, which has just been introduced. In
view of the comment made by the Minister of Finance that a reason for removing the control
on the trustee savings banks was because they had a complete guarantee by the Government,
does the Government intend to give the same guarantee to private savings banks?
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Hoist with his own petard!
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The member for Timaru has this
remarkable ability to lead with his chin. Again I would have thought that a former Minister
of Finance would realise that private banks associated with the five trading banks would be
able to provide an absolute guarantee, as against the various institutions that have collapsed
during the period of successive Governments.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: You're just being a bit too smart for your own good.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I know who is being a bit too smart for his own good; it is
the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. Surely he, at least, can understand that the savings
banks have a much lesser degree of risk than organisations such as Securitibank, the Cornish
Group, and Circuit Developments, to name just three that come to mind immediately, and
that it is desirable that they have more flexibility and a greater ability to compete for the
deposits of the small investors. Surely the Deputy Leader of the Opposition does not contest
that; and, if he does not, why does he feign ignorance?
Bill introduced and read a first time.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Social Welfare Workers
1. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How many social
workers have left the Department of Social Welfare in the last 18 months?


## p. 1718 (#174) ###########################################

1718
29 July
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): One hundred and twenty-two social
workers left the Department of Social Welfare during the 18-month period from 1 January
1976 to 30 June 1977.
Mr Marshall: In view of the fact that the department is now losing social workers at the
rate of about 8 a month, and that figure of 122 lost to the department in 18 months represents
more than 20 percent of the social work staff, has the Minister any explanation for this
obvious loss of morale?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: There is no loss of morale. There were 105 resignations during
the period as compared with 117 for the same reason during the 3 years of the last Labour
Government.
Mr Marshall: Will the Minister confirm that the periods are for 3 years in one case and
18 months in the other, and that 49 people have left the department in the last 6 months,
which is an alarming increase in resignations?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I will not confirm that there is any loss of morale in the
department. The reasons for the resignations are not available, but generally they are:
returning to teaching, nursing, and other private employment; social work with other
agencies, including hospital boards and guidance counselling services; or full-time university
studies. Young women ceasing employment because of marriage, to travel overseas, or
because of pregnancy, make up a substantial portion of the remainder. There is no loss of
morale, and no difficulty in obtaining replacements for those who left for the reasons I have
stated.
Hon. Michael Connelly: How many appointments of social workers have been made in
terms of the recommendation of the domestic purposes benefit report, the provisions of
which the Minister said had been implemented?
Mr SPEAKER: We are getting remote from the original question.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: At present 56 vacancies are being advertised to enable the
recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee to be introduced
within the next 4 to 6 weeks.
Mr Wellington: Could the Minister confirm that there is no concern for morale in the
Department of Social Welfare, and that as an example of this, he has instituted an
investigation of staffing requirements at the Otahuhu office in south Auckland, and acted in
accordance with the recommendations of the review committee?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I can confirm that. I can also say that in Otahuhu and in
other Auckland areas the department's staff are delighted with the improvements and
alterations being implemented.
Mr Marshall: Has the Minister had any representations from social workers about their
increasing work load and the conflict between their money saving role and their more
traditional supportive role?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, not that I am aware of. I am in close contact with social
workers, and as far as I know they are delighted with the improvements being made to their
conditions under the National Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Christchurch-Lyttelton Road Tunnel Authority-Revenues
2. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Finance: Can he confirm that the
revenues of the Lyttelton Road Tunnel Authority have fallen sharply in relation to increased
costs since the withdrawal of the Rangatira service, and does he now propose to increase the
tunnel tolls to compensate for this loss in revenue?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The Christchurch-Lyttelton Road
Tunnel Authority has sent me a brief summary of its revenues and costs over the past 8
years, together with an estimate for the 1977-78 year. This summary shows that for the
current financial year a small excess of expenditure over revenue is expected. However, the
figures do not indicate that the projected fall in revenue is due to the withdrawal of the
Rangatira service. Indeed, I note that there was a bigger increase in receipts for the 1976-77
year, during which the Rangatira service was withdrawn, than for many of the earlier years.
If the authority formally applies for my approval to an increase in toll charges, and
adequately supports its case, then every consideration will be given to its application.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Could the Minister give the quantum of the small excess of
expenditure over revenue?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: If I have it here, I will be happy to give it to the honourable
member.


## p. 1719 (#175) ###########################################

29 July
1719
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: If the Minister tabled the report perhaps we could find it
ourselves.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I doubt that the member could find it if I cannot. It looks as
though it is $16,000, which I think is small.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Post-Primary Schools-General Expenses Grant
3. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What increases in
the general expenses grant for post-primary schools have been authorised since December
1975?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Education. An increase of 12.5 percent in the grant for general expenses of secondary
schools was approved with effect from 1 February 1976. A further increase of 15 percent has
been approved from 1 April 1977. In addition, provision has been made for supplementary
grants for light, heating, and water costs, which in effect are inflation proof.
Mr Wellington: Bearing in mind that that adds up to an increase of 27.5 percent since 1
February 1976, a remarkable achievement, could the Minister indicate when the grants for
1978 will be announced?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: A review is under way at present, and it is hoped that
information should be available by November.
Mr Hunt: In view of the Minister's reply that there has been a 27 percent increase for
two financial years, will he explain how that 27 percent does not even keep pace with the rate
of inflation for those years?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: These matters are discussed, and related to actual needs.
Indeed, this is a great deal better than what occurred under the administration of the Labour
Government when, as far as I can gather from the figures, there was very little increase in
most of these areas. In the last 2 years, the National Government's record has been better
almost across the board.
Mr Marshall: Do the Minister's background notes indicate that many secondary schools
still find the increased grants inadequate to meet ordinary running expenses?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I cannot pick up that point directly. However, in the present
review a special effort is being made to pick up the difficulties of some of the larger schools.
Mr Wellington: When the Minister refers to the special review, is he referring to the
larger secondary schools with rolls of 600 or more, for whom a flat rate applies?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: Yes, the point at issue is that the grant paid to larger schools
with 600 or more students is at a flat rate. This is being reviewed to try to assist.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Electricity and Gas Users-Payment of Accounts
4. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Electricity: Has he read an article in the
Otago Daily Times of 12 July 1977 that "many electricity and gas users in the Dunedin area
are having to be pressured into paying their latest power bills by the Dunedin City
Corporation", and, if so, has he any information to indicate that this disturbing trend is
being reflected in other parts of New Zealand?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity): I have read the article referred to. Following
up overdue accounts is a normal part of a supply authority's operations, and disconnection
warning notices are necessary for late payers. If firm credit control is not maintained, a
consumer's indebtedness would continue to increase to such an extent that the account could
never be paid, and disconnection would be inevitable. The policy of a quick follow-up does
result in fewer disconnections. The point is that although the number of warnings has
increased, the article does indicate that the number of disconnections has remained steady at
six or seven.a week. I would expect the position to be much the same throughout the
country.
Mr Hunt: In view of the fact that the last part of my question referred to "being
reflected in other parts of New Zealand", could the Minister indicate whether he has any
information with him about the state of affairs in the Waitemata Electric Power Board,
where there has been a particularly large increase in electricity accounts in the last few
months?


## p. 1720 (#176) ###########################################

1720
29 July
Oral Answers to Questions
Mr SPEAKER: I think I should check this tendency to put in a little speech, or a little bit
of purely indicative material which has no relationship to the question being asked.
Hon. G. F. GAIR: Quite frankly, I think that the question is so far removed from the
original question that I could not be expected to have the answer available, but if the
member wants to set down a specific question related to the Waitemata Electric Power
Board, I would be pleased to provide the answer.
Richard Walls: Could the Minister confirm that what the question is all about is that the
disconnections relate to six or seven households a week, that this really shows no change
compared with past disconnections, and that we are talking about delayed payment of a
number of bills amounting to 3000 out of 45 000 sent out every 2 months?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I can confirm the information conveyed by the honourable member,
and I think it is worth noting, so that the House will get a fair and balanced appreciation of
the article quoted by the member for New Lynn, that the article also pointed out that, while
more notices are being issued, the number of people actually having their power cut off has
not increased. Mr Burt, the City Treasurer, who was quoted in the article, said that the
number had remained steady at six or seven households a week, and that usually, before the
power was cut off, the householder would owe for 4 months' electricity, which meant that he
had neglected to pay the current and the previous bill. Mr Walton, a welfare worker who is
also quoted in the same article, made the relevant observation that the main problem with
unpaid bills seems to be insufficient budgeting.
Hon. F. M. Colman: As six or seven households, on average, are disconnected each
week, what steps are taken to ensure that there is no undue hardship to families, particularly
when there are young children?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I do not doubt that those concerned are in touch with the welfare
office, but sometimes people move away leaving debts behind them. That sort of debt
accounts for a proportion of the cases.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Rarotongan Hotel
5. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Tourism: Can he give any
indication of the success or otherwise of the Tourist Hotel Corporation's participation in the
Rarotongan Hotel?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism): The Rarotongan is owned by a private
company, Cook Islands Hotels Ltd, whose three equal shareholders are the Cook Islands
Government, Air New Zealand, and the Tourist Hotel Corporation. Tourist Hotel Corpora-
tion participation in the venture is not only as a shareholder; it also has the contract to
manage the hotel. All the indications are that The Rarotongan will be a success. I am pleased
to be able to tell the honourable member, and the House, that not only are the design and
planning of buildings a success, but also the hotel was completed and opened 3 months
earlier than originally anticipated. Another success is the level of occupancy. From the
successful promotional efforts of both the THC and Air New Zealand, it appears that
forward bookings for the next 3 months will ensure that more than 90 percent of rooms will
be occupied. It is probable that an annual average occupancy of 70 percent will be achieved
for the first stage of this year.
Mr Talbot: Is it possible at this stage for the Minister to indicate what economic benefits
will accrue to the Cook Islands from the operation?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: The economic benefits from the venture are that it does give a
tropical holiday venue to New Zealand without the need to use overseas funds. The wages
spent there will be of the order of $300,000 a year, and considerable purchases of fruit and
vegetables are being contracted for within the Islands. A number of private entrepreneurs
from the Cook Islands are supplying vehicles and boats for tourists.
Mr Kirk: In view of the Minister's reply that the Air New Zealand and THC operation
in Rarotonga will be successful, can he say how the negotiations with the THC and Air New
Zealand to buy the Chateau Hotel in Christchurch are going?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That has nothing to do with the question. It is like saying, "What
is the price of cabbages?"
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Can I take it from the Minister's reply that he is proud indeed of
this consortium of public enterprise making such a great success?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I do not think the Minister's pride is really relevant to the


## p. 1721 (#177) ###########################################

29 July
1721
Oral Answers to Questions
present activity.
Mr Lambert: Will the Minister confirm that the hotel will bring further benefits to the
New Zealand tourist industry, as another link in the tourist travel chain to New Zealand?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: Yes.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Waiheke County Council Rates
6. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Local Government: Has he
seen the two Waiheke County Council rates notices in the New Zealand Herald of 20 July in
which the rate in cents per dollar varies inversely with the land value of the property, and can
he state whether such rating is in accordance with the differential rating provisions of the
Counties Act 1956?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): I have seen the public notice
referred to. In relation to differential rating, the Counties Act 1956 provides that a council
may divide the county into differential rating areas. Any one differential rating area may be
a combination of several individual properties not necessarily contiguous with one another.
A county council is empowered to make and levy rates of varying amounts in the dollar as
between differential rating areas. Subject to the maximum total rates prescribed in the Act, a
council in its own discretion may determine the rate to be levied in each such differential
rating area. If it comes to a contest as to whether or not the Waiheke County Council has
complied with the letter of the law, this must, of course, be left to the courts to resolve.
Mr Prebble: Is the concept of the Waiheke County Council, which I think could be
paraphrased as "those who have least shall pay most", in accordance with the Government's
rating policy?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: If there is any doubt as to whether the law is being complied with,
it is a matter for the courts to resolve.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Kaimai Railway Tunnel
7. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Minister of Railways: Is he able to give a date for the
regular use of the Kaimai railway tunnel?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways): Present indications are that the
Kaimai tunnel should be in use about August 1978.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Radio Single Sideband Equipment for Fiji
8. Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is it true that radio
single sideband equipment for supply to Fiji under aid was purchased in Australia, though in
fact made in New Zealand?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The Fiji authorities asked New Zealand to supply, under the
bilateral aid programme, 20 Australian-made radio transceivers for use in small marine
vessels. This request was considered as part of a programme of New Zealand assistance to
transportation for the outer islands of Fiji. The merits of similar New Zealand-made
equipment were naturally drawn to the attention of the Fiji authorities. However, Fiji
already employs the same Australian equipment, and the Fiji authorities were concerned
about standardisation of equipment and uniform training of maintenance officers. The issue
of standardisation and maintenance is a particularly difficult problem in all our Pacific aid
programmes, and the New Zealand Government has agreed to play its part in trying to
reduce the complications of too many different sorts of equipment. The Australian marine
transceivers were accordingly purchased for Fiji. In general, however, it remains the
Government's policy to provide New Zealand-made equipment under the aid programme to
the maximum extent possible.
Mr O'Brien: Did the director of external aid in fact check the compatibility of the New
Zealand-made equipment with the Australian equipment currently in use in Fiji?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I checked with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
was informed that it had received technical advice from its New Zealand technical advisers


## p. 1722 (#178) ###########################################

1722
29 July
Oral Answers to Questions
on the matter, and that in fact the New Zealand equipment was not completely compatible
with the Australian equipment in that particular order. The value of the order was about
$42,000.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: As single sideband radio specifications are required to comply
with international requirements, surely the question of standardisation referred to by the
Minister in his original answer is not really relevant.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: It was relevant to the Fiji authorities. We asked
them to consider receiving the New Zealand equipment, and they gave what were consi-
dered to be adequate technical reasons for requiring us to provide the Australian equipment.
If the honourable member wants any further information I suggest that he submits another
question to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I think that is likely to happen.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I am quite happy about that.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hotel Accommodation—Tavern Levy Fund
9. Mr H. N. AUSTIN (Hobson), on behalf of Mr COOPER (Otago Central), asked the
Minister of Housing: What allocations to accommodation development have been made
through the 3 percent tavern levy fund?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): The allocations for the financial year
ended 31 March 1977 for accommodation development amounted to $2.37 million, and for
the first quarter of the current financial year $1.9 million had been allocated.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hawkes's Bay Education Board
10. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the article in
the Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 16 July 1977 in which the Chairman of the Hawke's Bay
Education Board, Mr J. A. Halford, described it as a "cause for alarm" that the board will
not be able to catch up on maintenance work; and, if so, can he indicate when education
boards will receive enough money for this work?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Education. His answer is as follows: "I have seen the article referred to, and am somewhat
surprised at the comments. In the last 3 years the level of the maintenance grant has been
increased by 10, 11, and 11 percent respectively. Therefore, the money spent in the
maintenance area has been increased. I am even more surprised because, in addition, in the
last two financial years the Department of Labour has financed an accelerated maintenance
scheme in selected areas, and Hawke's Bay was one of the areas selected. Nevertheless, the
board there took advantage of the scheme only to the extent of approximately $31,000 worth
of work at four schools."
Mr Hunt: As the Minister has revealed an increase of only 20 or 21 percent in the
amount granted to boards in the last 2 years, whereas in fact the inflation rate has been about
50 percent in excess of that, how can he now be surprised at the reaction of that particular
education board.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am not at all sure where the member obtained his figures.
Mr Hunt: The Minister said the increases had been 10, 11, and 11 percent.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: That is in terms of the last 3 years.
Mr Hunt: Well, it must be higher than that.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: In what terms? The member cannot take a figure and relate
it to a particular area of maintenance; it must be related to the needs. The fact is that the
particular board about which the question was asked has not followed through on an
accelerated programme as it might have done; so it must be reasonably content with the
amount of work being done.
Mr Wellington: As the original question referred to education boards in general, is the
Minister aware that the Minister of Education received a letter from the general manager of
the Auckland Education Board, in which he said, "It was resolved that I should write and
convey the members' appreciation to you for the efforts in obtaining a realistic allocation for
a large and growing board"; and does he agree that that indicates that boards are receiving
sufficient money?
Mr Prebble: A point of order, Mr Speaker. As I understand it, the member for


## p. 1723 (#179) ###########################################

29 July
1723
Oral Answers to Questions
Manurewa has quoted from a letter, and I suggest to you that he is making a speech rather
than asking a supplementary question. I am somewhat reluctant to raise the point, as I
believe members should be able to ask the supplementary questions they want to ask, but I
draw your attention to the fact that the member for Manurewa appears to have developed
the habit of asking questions of the nature of the question he has just asked, and I think.he
should be told-[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! There may be some substance in the point, and there must not
be so much noise.
Mr Prebble: Thank you, Mr Speaker. I am drawing your attention to the style in which
the member for Manurewa asks questions, which I submit is not in accordance with the
Standing Orders. He uses the opportunity of asking a question to make a statement, and the
supplementary question he has just asked is a very good example of the type of question that
he has formed a habit of asking. I believe it should be drawn to his attention that when he
asks questions he should not make statements.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I suggest there is no merit in the point of order and even less
merit in the manner in which it was presented. In the House it is not appropriate for
members to allege that other members have got into the habit of doing this, that, or the other
thing. It is particularly inappropriate when the allegation is made by the member for
Auckland Central, but I shall not refer to his habits because I do not want to break the rule.
The member for Manurewa would have been stopped by you, Mr Speaker, as you regularly
do stop members, if he had been transgressing by speaking at too great a length or
irrelevantly. He was not stopped by you, his material was relevant, and I believe the
question was in order. It is quite inappropriate for a member who has not been in the House
very long to lecture us on the behaviour of other members.
Mr Hunt: Earlier, when we were discussing question 4, you pulled me up for referring to
the Waitemata Electric Power Board because the question mentioned only the Dunedin City
Corporation.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Are you questioning the Speaker's decision?
Mr Hunt: No, I am not questioning the Speaker's ruling; I am saying that there should
be consistency. In his supplementary question the member for Manurewa referred to the
Auckland area and read a letter from the Auckland Education Board although the question
refers only to the Hawke's Bay Education Board. That indicates to me that the supplemen-
tary question was completely out of order, and that the member for Auckland Central was
perfectly justified in raising the point.
Hon. David Thomson: If we look at the question put down by the member for Napier we
see that most of it is merely preamble. The question itself is asked at the end: "Can he
indicate when education boards"-in the plural-"will receive enough money for this
work?"-"this work" being maintenance work. The supplementary question put by the
member for Manurewa quite properly asked whether the Minister was aware of the reaction
of the Auckland Education Board, one of the education boards referred to in the question. I
consider the supplementary question was completely in order.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: This morning a precedent was established in line with the
statement just made by the Minister of Justice. Question 4 asked whether "this disturbing
trend is being reflected in other parts of New Zealand". That is a very general and
widespread statement. However, probably properly, Mr Speaker's ruling confined us to
supplementary questions about the Dunedin City area. Question 10 is worded in a somewhat
similar manner, and the same principle should be applied. Therefore, in the interests of
consistency, in asking supplementary questions we should be confined, at least for this
morning, to adopting the same rule that was established on question 4.
Hon. G. F. Gair: I believe I can help, because I want to comment on the contribution to
the point of order made by the member for New Lynn and reinforced by the member for
Roskill. You may recall, Mr Speaker, that in the case of question 4, which I followed very
closely because I was the Minister concerned, your objection, as I understand it, was to the
mini-speech the member for New Lynn injected into his question and not to the fact that the
Waitemata Electric Power Board was referred to as distinct from the Dunedin City
Corporation, which was mentioned in the question. I conceded, by way of a supplementary
answer, that, if the member for New Lynn would pose a specific question relating to the
Waitemata Electric Power Board, I would be pleased to answer it, and you let the matter
rest there. I would remind the House that your ruling on that matter referred to the speech
within the question and not the matter of the location.
Mr SPEAKER: When one has this mass of questions to deal with, it is difficult to reflect


## p. 1724 (#180) ###########################################

1724
29 July
Oral Answers to Questions
back to the exact details of what was said, but my impression regarding question 4 was that
there was a supplementary question on the position of the Waitemata or whatever board
where difficulties were very serious, which had nothing to do with the original question as far
as I can recall, and therefore caused me to comment. If I merely ruled it out because it was
dealing with some other part of New Zealand, then the parallel to the present case would be
close. Coming now to the present question, although it is not strictly out of order, it is the
sort of question that should be discouraged. It was a supplementary question of considerable
length. I missed the fact that the letter referred to a separate education board, but it sounded
to me as if the question were, "Has the Minister not received a letter which reads as
follows?", then a great chunk of the letter was quoted. To my mind, prepared supplemen-
tary questions are always suspect. While the question was of an unfortunate type, strictly it
was not out of order. I suggest that the member ask a brief and more appropriate question on
the same point, or let the matter go.
Mr Wellington: Does not the letter to which I referred indicate that education boards
are receiving sufficient capital?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I can confirm this from material the Minister of Education
has made available to me. It is interesting to note that the annual reports of eight education
boards to hand in the department show five with a credit balance in the maintenance
account. This is very much to the credit of the Minister and the department.
Mr Hunt: Can we take it from the Minister's reply to the original question that there is
no foundation whatsoever in the comment made by Mr J. A. Halford?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I think it is important to recognise, as I have commented,
that the Hawke's Bay Education Board over the last 2 years has had available to it a special
scheme to get on with its deferred maintenance. I am not critical of Mr Halford. I am simply
stating the case that the board could have made a greater effort itself to pick up on its
deferred maintenance, and I wish the member would accept that.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Secondary School Teachers-Recruitment
11. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What steps have
been taken to recruit additional qualified secondary school teachers in certain specialised
subject fields?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Education. This year's recruitment campaign has been designed to attract people who are
qualified in the subject areas in which shortages of secondary teachers exist. In addition, the
Government has approved a scheme to recruit secondary teachers in the United Kingdom in
specified categories.
Mr Marshall: As in the year ended 31 March 1977 we lost 532 teachers from the
profession through emigration, compared to an increase of 186 in the previous year, has the
Minister of Education taken steps to find out why we are losing so many teachers, thereby
creating the problem in the first place?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: No, I cannot give any indication on that. In my experience
in the education field, there has always been a general movement of teachers to and from
this country. We have traditionally recruited from overseas, and are continuing to do so.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hawke's Bay Schools-Absenteeism
12. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Education: What action does he
propose to take to meet the absenteeism problem in the Hawke's Bay schools, described in
the Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 16 July 1977 as "very worrying"?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Education. His answer is as follows: "I have seen the press report referred to. Surveys
conducted by the Hawke's Bay Education Board show no significant difference in the
incidence of truancy during the last 2 years. In some districts, however, it remains a cause for
concern. My department is developing with the education boards, teachers, and other
departments a comprehensive national programme which is already proving useful in
reducing truancy in the Hawke's Bay and other districts. This programme is being extended
as the information gained from existing pilot programmes is evaluated and made available to
schools and other agencies concerned. The programme involves a circular which will give


## p. 1725 (#181) ###########################################

29 July
1725
Oral Answers to Questions
guidance to principals; a national survey on absenteeism; reviews of the teaching program-
mes for pupils at risk for truancy and of the procedures used to check attendances and follow
up unexplained absences; and a review of liaison with parents and with other agencies which
have responsibilities in this matter."
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Telephone Exchanges at Waipawa, Waipukurau, and Porangahau
13. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Postmaster-General: When will the manual
exchanges in Waipawa, Waipukurau, and Porangahau be replaced with automatic
exchanges?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): It is planned to replace the Waipukurau
manual with an automatic exchange early in 1979, and to convert Porangahau to automatic
soon after. Waipawa is programmed for conversion in the early 1980s.
Mr Falloon: As many of the country people serviced by the present manual exchanges
are on party lines with 12 and 13 subscribers, and as they undertake much voluntary work as
well as running their businesses, could the Minister not expedite work in the Waipukurau
area in particular?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I acknowledge the validity of what the member has said about
overloaded party lines, but am afraid that this will be a fact of life for many people for some
time in view of the priority we are attaching to those who do not have a first connection. I
doubt very much whether the Waipukurau project could be expedited. The equipment is on
order, with delivery expected late this year. I can see no way of pushing this work forward.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Rail Passenger Transport, Western Suburbs, Auckland
14. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) to ask the Minister of Transport: Will he
explain why the reference in the Budget to the Auckland-Papakura railway line is not
accompanied by some proposals for passenger transport in the area through which the
Auckland-Waitakere railway line runs, but fails to serve, and reassure residents of the
western suburbs of Auckland that their needs have not been entirely overlooked by the
Government?
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to the fact
that this question refers to Budget proposals for the Auckland-Papakura railway, and then
asks questions relating to other railways. It seems to me that it contravenes Standing Order
87(3)(b), which states that questions shall not anticipate discussion of an Order of the Day or
other matter. The question clearly contravenes an Order of the Day. In fact, I recall that last
night the honourable member for Henderson in his Budget address asked questions now
repeated on the Order Paper. That in itself seems a good reason for having this Standing
Order, to avoid repetition of this nature. I ask that the question be deleted from the Order
Paper.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I take the honourable gentleman's point and
advance, in rebuttal, the same argument that was put to you on a previous occasion, that the
question deals, not with a Budget proposal, but with the failure of the Budget to make a
proposal.
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): Mr Speaker, if you turn to page 564 of today's Order
Paper, you will find that my question 2 set down for Tuesday next relates to the same thing
and I am sure it comes within the Standing Orders.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): Mr Speaker, I refer you to Speaker's ruling 114/4 which states,
"Questions relating to matters about to be investigated by a select committee are admiss-
ible." My own recollection is that another Speaker's ruling comes close to it, as I recall the
matter having been raised when I was in the chair, and there was no limitation on the
question procedure in respect of raising matters that were also on the Order Paper. This is
important, because a Government might try to use it as a device to have something
completely removed from the question structure, which should be kept open and as free as
possible. I have a feeling that this matter has been raised and ruled on some time during the
last 2 or 3 years.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): I have two other points to make. The first is that in submitting
questions for answer by Ministers the procedure is for them to go through the Clerk of the
House, as do notices of motion. On occasions the Clerk has advised that because there is a


## p. 1726 (#182) ###########################################

1726
29 July
Oral Answers to Questions
direct reference to the Budget debate the question or notice of motion anticipated an Order
of the Day. It seems important that we should have consistency both in your rulings and in
the advice given by the Clerk of the House. My objection to this question is not so much to
what the question asks, but to the way in which it is asked. The point made by the member
for Waitemata is valid. He referred to question 2 in his name to be asked on Tuesday, 2
August, in which the same matters are canvassed but where there is no direct reference to
the Budget. That is really why I have raised this point of order.
Mr SPEAKER: I must confess that this question is one of considerable difficulty. I
allowed one notice of motion this morning that referred to the Budget debate mainly
because it was marginal, and I did not feel disposed at that stage to strike it out. It seems to
me that this question is rather less marginally in transgression of Standing Order 87(3)(b).
The question asks if the Minister will explain why the reference in the Budget-and that is
the subject of a current Order of the Day-to the Auckland-Papakura railway line is not
accompanied by some proposals for something else. That is a perfectly valid question in, and
it is the subject of perfectly valid debate in, the Budget discussion. Although I should not
have raised this matter myself, it having been raised I think I should rule that it has been
properly raised. I shall look further at the question, because this has clearly wide-ranging
implications. In the meantime, I rule that the question does transgress.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest that
when you are considering the matter that it might be appropriate, if you agree to the
question being allowed, that you put it on the Order Paper on Tuesday along with the
question referred to by the member for Waitemata, but preferably giving my question
priority.
Mr SPEAKER: I will give some thought to that.
Minister of Police-Statement to National Party Conference
15. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Justice: Has he acted on
the desire expressed in the New Zealand Herald of 25 July of Mr J. A. Wicks S. M., the
chairman of the Magistrates Executive, to be provided with the full text of the address to the
National Party Conference by the Minister of Police, in which the Minister criticised
sentences imposed by magistrates, and will he ensure that any comments Mr Wicks makes to
him will be given equal publicity to that received by his colleague's criticisms?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The comments of the Minister of Police
and the responses of the learned magistrate have both received wide publicity. I have
reminded my colleague of the provision this Government made in 1969 by way of amend-
ment to the Summary Proceedings Act 1957 which enabled the prosecution to appeal against
a sentence imposed in the magistrate's court. That is as far as I propose to take the matter.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: The Minister has not replied to the first part of my question,
which inquired whether the magistrate's request to be supplied with the full text of the
Minister's address had been acceded to?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: No, because I understand there is no record of any full text.
They were off-the-cuff comments.
Hon. Allan McCready: Was the meeting at which I made that statement open to the
press?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes, indeed, as most of the discussions of the National
Government are open to the public.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is it correct that the statement by the Minister of Police has also
received the support of the district commissioner of police in Wellington?
Hon. Allan McCready: And of the Police Association.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: And also the Police Association?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes it has received both support and criticism. Another
learned magistrate in Auckland has seen fit to criticise it.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
SELWYN PLANTATION BOARD AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): I move, That leave be given to
introduce the Selwyn Plantation Board Amendment Bill. This Bill aims at the general
modernisation of aspects of the principal Act, the Selwyn Plantation Board Act 1953. The
board owns 7200 hectares of land between the Waimakariri and Rakaia Rivers. Much of that


## p. 1727 (#183) ###########################################

29 July
1727
Selwyn Plantation Board Amendment Bill
land is planted in trees. This plantation provides shelter on the Canterbury Plains. It is a
commercial enterprise through the sale of timber, and provides assistance to the district
through funds invested in loans raised by local bodies.
The provisions of the Bill will bring the plantation board into line with the practices
common to other local authorities. This would be achieved by easing the restrictions on the
board's ability to lease land and by allowing it more easily to employ the land it has leased for
plantations. There is provision for the board to assist its employees to buy their own houses.
Other provisions would allow the board to come into line with other local authorities with
offices, accounts, and decimal currency. These proposals have been worked out in consulta-
tion with at least one Government department, the Department of Lands and Survey, and
this measure will permit the board to modernise its operations.
Motion agreed to.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
BASTION POINT (VESTING AND EMPOWERING) BILL
Mr HARRISON (Hawke's Bay): I am directed by the Committee on Bills to present the
report of the committee on the Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill. In the opinion
of the committee the Bill is a public Bill, and, being a public Bill, it is a local Bill. I move,
That the report do lie upon the table and be adopted and agreed to.
As instructed by Standing Order 218, the committee has inquired into the character of
the Bill and expresses its opinion on whether the Bill is a public or private Bill, and whether,
if a public Bill, it is a local Bill. Standing Order 279 defines a private Bill as one, not being a
local Bill, designed for the particular interest or benefit of a person or body of persons.
However, Speaker's rulings such as 14/2 and 14/3 provide that matters superficially falling
within this definition may nevertheless constitute a public and not a private Bill. The
involvement of public policy appears to be the guide. For example, in one Speaker's ruling,
the State guarantee to the Bank of New Zealand was taken as a measure of public policy and
therefore the Bill was ruled to be a public and not a private Bill.
However, Bills dealing in some way with Crown land do not, because of that, require to
be public Bills. Standing Order 294 allows for a procedure whereby a private Bill can affect
the property rights or prerogatives of the Crown. The Palmerston North Showgrounds Act
1974 is an example of Crown land being affected by a private Bill for the benefit of a body of
persons. Bills which amend public Acts have been ruled to be measures of public policy
which cannot be passed as private Bills. The committee then had to ask itself whether the
Bill amends a public Act, since its intention, as with many private Bills, is to create an
exception to the general law for the benefit of a particular group.
Standing Order 218 requires the committee to inquire into the character and intention
of the Bill. From that inquiry it is clear that no matter what the Bill's intention, or the
intention of its promoter, it does not in its terms alter any of the provisions of a public Act,
although it does seek to limit some Acts, either explicitly or by implication. On the occasion
of Speaker's ruling 14/2 being given, the Bill in question amended the text of a public Act
and, therefore, proposed to amend its application generally, and not just a particular set of
circumstances. Therefore, the committee resolved unanimously that the Bill was not a
private Bill. Obviously, then, it must be a public Bill, and the question was then whether it
was a private member's public Bill or a local Bill.
Standing Order 257 defines local Bills as those which, not being private Bills, affect a
particular locality only. Speaker's ruling 9/3 appears to contradict that Standing Order by
stating that a Bill to amend a public Act is a public, not a local, Bill, even if it relates to a
district only, or a particular locality. In all of the examples given, the proposed Bills sought
to amend the text of a public Act, but this is not the case here. As the committee found when
deciding the Bill was not a private Bill-no matter what the intention of the Bill or its
promoter-it is clear that in its terms it does not alter any of the provisions of a public Act,
although it does seek explicitly to limit the Maori Trust Board Act 1955 and the Lands Act
1948, and perhaps by implication the Public Works Act, and possibly some others.
Crown land clearly may be the subject of a local Bill, although Speaker's ruling 10/3
indicates the opposite, because Mr Speaker Steward ruled in 1893 that although the
Gimmerburn Forest Bill dealt with a particular locality, it did not propose to divest the
Crown of that land and was therefore not a local Bill, but a private member's public Bill.
However, the Gimmerburn Forest Reserve Bill of 1890 was ruled to be a local Bill, because,
although it was promoted by the Government and provided for the alienation of Crown land,


## p. 1728 (#184) ###########################################

1728
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
its vesting was in the Maniototo County Council, which was the local authority. Local Bills
thus affect a locality rather than the jurisdiction, although in most cases this will be involved
as well. This, of course, is in accordance with Standing Order 257. The Bastion Point
(Vesting and Empowering) Bill is similar in that it vests Crown land in a group of people
other than the Crown, and, therefore, cannot be a private Bill. Also, as it is restricted to a
particular locality—the land in the Orakei block in the North Auckland Land District-it
must be a local Bill, rather than a private member's public Bill. That is what the committee
found.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): As a member of the Committee on Bills, which
considered the status of the Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill, I believe that the
Bill could have been considered a private Bill, a public Bill, or a local Bill. While a technical
argument can be raised in favour of the committee's conclusion that it is a local Bill, I believe
it is a borderline case. I was disappointed that the committee did not deal with it as a public
Bill, which was clearly the intention of the Bill, and I believe that the decision of the
committee will strangle the Bill with technicalities.
The Bill could have been dealt with as a public Bill. Standing Order 279(1) defines a
private Bill as a Bill which, not being a local Bill, is designed for the particular interest or
benefit of a person or body of persons, whether incorporated or not. Although the Bill was
designed to help the Ngati Whatua it was clearly not just a private Bill. It must be then either
a local Bill or a public Bill. A public Bill is not defined in the Standing Orders, but Standing
Order 257 defines local Bills as those which, not being private Bills, affect a particular
locality only. Presumably, if it does more than that it must be a public Bill.
The Bill, while containing elements of a local Bill and a private Bill, also contains
something more. Under clause 4, the Maori Trust Board can enter into what arrangements it
sees fit with the Auckland Regional Authority, the Auckland City Council, and other
municipal authorities, with a view to providing for the management, development, protec-
tion and care of all parts of the Bastion Point land reserved for recreational purposes. That
means that the people of Auckland will benefit, and I submit that it is wrong to determine
that it is a local Bill just because only one piece of land is involved. The ramifications of the
Bill spread beyond Bastion Point itself, because the Ngati Whatua, who are the primary
beneficiaries of the Bill, are now scattered throughout New Zealand. The Maori Trust Board
is empowered to enter into arrangements with a local body, and the Bill makes it clear that
the municipal authorities with which the trust board may deal must be in different localities.
Speaker's ruling 10/2 states that a Bill which affects a whole provincial district and not a
particular locality is not a local Bill, and it seems to me that the empowering clause contained
in the Bill to negotiate with different local bodies means that most of the Auckland Province
could be affected by the Bill. Under Speaker's ruling 11/1, a Bill which enabled a local body,
in this case the Wellington City Council, to transfer land to the Victoria University College
Council as a site for the university college, and to receive land in exchange from the
Wellington College Board of Governors, and enabled the Wellington Hospital Trustees also
to transfer land to the Victoria University College Council-the trustees to be paid out of the
Consolidated Revenue Account-was deemed to be a public, not a local, Bill. The
explanatory note to that ruling says that the university college was designed to serve the
middle districts of New Zealand. Presumably that is why the Bill was ruled to be a public, not
a local Bill.
I believe there is a direct parallel between that ruling and the Bill before us. A number
of local authorities in Auckland will be affected, as will Crown revenue, because it is Crown
land that will be transferred. On that basis, the committee, if it wanted to, could have ruled
that it is a public Bill, because it is obviously more than just a local Bill.
A third reason for ruling it a public Bill is the fact that the Bill modifies a number of
Acts. Clause 5 states that notwithstanding anything contained in any other Act, such and
such shall be the case. Clause 8 states that the Bill shall bind the Crown, and clause 7 states
that the land will be inalienable, which would seem to have an effect on the Public Works
Act. If a Bill seeks to amend a public Act, it must be a public Bill, even if it deals with only
one piece of land. I have no doubt that the Bill would have been deemed to be a public Bill,
had it been framed slightly differently and had it named the sections in the public Act it was
seeking to amend. The effect of the Bill as it is worded is exactly the same, which is quite
proper. I believe the Bill does seek to modify a number of public Acts-and one could argue
whether "modify" means "amend". I believe it does-and clearly the Bill should be dealt
with as a public Bill. Unfortunately the committee decided to lean to the technicality, and
the Government used its majority to determine otherwise.


## p. 1729 (#185) ###########################################

29 July
1729
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
The House should be aware that alternative drafting, while making no difference to the
effect of the Bill, would have made the Bill a public Bill. The method used for drafting will
affect public Bills. The matter is a borderline one. The committee should have looked at the
overall purpose of the Bill, and whether it was intended to be a local Bill. It is clear, when
one looks at the Bill as a whole, that it was intended to be a public Bill, and the House should
take notice of that intention. The land involved has emotional and historical significance not
only to the people of the Ngati Whatua, who are spread throughout New Zealand, but to all
New Zealanders. It must be remembered that Michael Joseph Savage, the first Labour
Prime Minister, is buried at Bastion Point, and even today people visiting Auckland go there
to pay their respects to his memory. For that reason it can be claimed that the land is more
than just local land.
The Bill was put forward by the member for Northern Maori as a solution to an
extraordinarily difficult problem which goes far beyond Auckland. The ruling of the
committee that the Bill is a local Bill will strangle it with legal technicalities. The Bill should
have been given a second reading. It is a borderline case, and a member of the House has a
historical right to bring forward a private member's Bill. The Committee on Bills should
have leant over backwards to allow the member to bring forward what he considers to be the
proper solution to a problem within his electorate. The Bill should have been dealt with as a
public Bill and given a second reading. Many members believe that the Bill is a good one,
and the proper solution to the difficulties of Bastion Point. By giving the Bill a second
reading it was hoped that the Government would be persuaded that the Bill should be
adopted. I oppose the committee majority decision, and the House should oppose the
decision of the committee on Bills as being an extraordinarily unfortunate precedent.
Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori): Opposition members are extremely disappointed in
the decision reached by the committee about the status of the Bill. Before proceeding to give
my views, I take the opportunity to thank the staff members of the office of the Clerk of the
House, who rendered valuable assistance in the detailed arrangements necessary for the
presentation of this important Bill. When the matter first came under consideration I was
told that this difficulty could arise, and the solicitor of the Ngati Whatua people was told
also. I shall read a letter from the solicitor promoting the Bill. "I am anxious that this Bill
should not get bogged down in procedural wrangle. The essential point is to ensure a proper
parliamentary discussion of the whole issue of Bastion Point, both as to the title of the land
and as to the utilisation of the land."
me.
Mr Harrison: Who is that letter from?
Hon. M. RATA: From the solicitor acting for the people concerned. He was advised by
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Who are the people he is acting for?
Hon. M. RATA: The Ngati Whatua people. The solicitor made this point after receiving
my advice that the Bill could face this problem.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Which part of the Ngati Whatua people is he acting for?
Hon. M. RATA: What does the Prime Minister mean-there is only one part. The
Prime Minister cannot choose. He has a habit of choosing the genealogy and picking on the
people that suit him. I believe the Prime Minister is responsible for the division between a
very proud people who are questioning their own history and integrity. I am pleased that the
Prime Minister is present, because he is partly responsible for this matter. I had hoped that
he would see his way clear to subscribe to a positive solution for this problem.
I shall not go over the Bill, having had that opportunity during the first reading, but I
remind the House that the people concerned have tried all the lawful measures at their
disposal to have this problem resolved. The Government was approached and asked to use
the Maori Land Court or the Treaty of Waitangi, but that was not possible. A petition of
4800 signatures was presented to the Prime Minister. Because of the Government's refusal to
use the provisions of the Land Act, the only course open to the people was to have the
matter placed before the House. Having reached that point, they are now faced with
technicalities. In exceptional circumstances the House has suspended its Standing Orders to
enable a Bill to have a second reading. Of course that would need the concurrence of the
House.
When the Bill was introduced it was conveyed to all local authorities in the area as a
matter of courtesy. All people with a direct or indirect interest in the land were advised
about the introduction of the Bill. Apart from the financial barrier involved, the Bill
represented a logical and practical step to remove the existing tensions at Bastion Point.
When one takes account of the history of this unhappy affair, it seems that Parliament would


## p. 1730 (#186) ###########################################

1730
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
have done a service to the people concerned by giving the Bill a second reading. When the
decisions of the various groups were set aside, I am satisfied that the Bill would have
provided direction for a solution. The Government has not disagreed that there is a need to
establish a trust board, or that the Bill might be the best vehicle for the question to be
properly debated in the House. A solution to this long-standing problem might have been
arrived at by that debate. The decision does not come as a surprise, because, as I have said, I
was told that the Bill might face difficulties.
The police have already expressed to me their deep concern about this matter. I see no
reason why the police or the courts could not have acted when the law has provisions to deal
with the matter. The Government has refused to give the people concerned access to a court
of law. That was bad enough, but the Minister of Maori Affairs had no time to deal with the
matter and said it was a waste of time. He denied the people access to the court, which he
alone can grant by a simple recommendation to the Cabinet.
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest that the member is
ranging far from the question before the House.
Hon. M. RATA: Speaking to the point of order, Mr Speaker, after hearing the
recommendation of the committee I am advancing views and reasons why the committee
could have adopted another recommendation. I agree that this is not the occasion to debate
the Bill, or the issue itself. I was trying to establish the reason for the Bill, and for its having
been sent to the Committee on Bills. I was suggesting that if we had taken account of it, and
the committee had taken account of it, a different opinion might have been expressed. I can
do no other than appeal to the House as a whole.
Mr SPEAKER: The motion, as I seem to recall, was that the report do lie upon the table
and be adopted and agreed to. Matter relevant to that is the proper content of the debate.
The general global picture of the Bastion Point problem is rather wide of that somewhat
technical question, and I suggest that the member confine himself largely to the technicalities
of whether or not the report should be adopted and agreed to.
Hon. M. RATA: I shall try to do that, Mr Speaker. I was not a member of the
committee, and can make my judgment only on the brief references of the chairman.
Perhaps I should rephrase my remarks and ask the chairman of the committee whether,
during the consideration of the Bill, he took account of the fact that this proposal would not
have been necessary, nor would it have been necessary for the committee to meet, if the
history of the Bill had been taken into account. I draw attention to the fact that it is some
time since the Committee on Bills was called to decide the status of a Bill. Clearly the Ngati
Whatua people will take the view that once more the Government has put a stumbling block
in their way. I plead with Parliament to realise that the people can view this decision and
recommendation only as a further block to their just claims. I warn Parliament of that. If
these people cannot go to the courts, and if their petitions go unheard, where else can they
turn? They do not want privileges that are not accorded to other citizens of New Zealand,
but the situation does warrant earnest reconsideration by the Committee on Bills at least. It
is my sincere hope that the Prime Minister, whose electorate is also involved, will ensure that
the tensions are removed at the earliest possible date. I also hope that the House will take
that into account. I am opposed to the motion, not because it is technically wrong, but
because it is not in the interests of the people I represent. In all conscience I cannot vote for
it, and will therefore vote against it.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): Both Opposition members who have
spoken to this motion have admitted that the decision of the committee is technically correct.
The member for Northern Maori nods his head. He puts forward the proposition that for
reasons he has outlined we should make a decision that is not technically correct. I propose
to address myself to the reasons that he claims outweigh the technical correctness of the
committee's decision. I submit in the first instance that it would be difficult for a member of
Parliament to accept that some peculiar set of circumstances outweighed a correct decision
of a select committee, made in accordance with the rules. It is not claimed that the decision
was not made in accordance with the rules. But the reasons put forward by the member for
Northern Maori-and the member for Auckland Central skirted around the same area,
although he was rather less coherent than the member for Northern Maori—are in
themselves quite untenable. I remind the House that the proposals for subdividing this land,
which were the very beginning of this argument-and again the member for Northern Maori
agrees were considered first when he was Minister of Lands. The Labour Government was
in power, not the National Government, and the very member who is arguing against this
motion today was Minister of Lands in the Labour Government.


## p. 1731 (#187) ###########################################

29 July
1731
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
Dr Wall: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Is the behaviour of past Ministers of Lands
pertinent to the question of whether the report should lie upon the table?
Hon. David Thomson: Speaking to the point of order-
Mr SPEAKER: I do not need help on this matter. Strictly, it is no more pertinent to the
question before the House than the arguments that have been put forward. There are two
aspects. One is the technical legal question of whether the report should be
adopted-whether or not it is correct-and whether it may be attacked on the ground that it
is legally in error. But both the member for Auckland Central and the member for Northern
Maori said that in their view there was some ambiguity, and for certain reasons they believed
the House should depart from legal technicalities and take a certain line of action. The Prime
Minister is now discussing the reasons given by opposing members for saying that we should
depart from technicalities and yield a certain point, and so avoid putting what was described
as a block in the way of what they thought would be remedies. Those arguments, I feel, were
fairly wide, and I said so three-quarters of the way through one speech. I did not stop the
members, and a reply to those points is reasonably valid, although it has resulted in a fairly
wide debate.
Mr Hunt: A point of order, Mr Speaker. There is a small difficulty I should like you to
resolve. I am not questioning your previous ruling, but the Prime Minister talked about
comments made by the member for Auckland Central, with whom I have just discussed this
matter. The Prime Minister did not quote the member for Auckland Central correctly. I am
wondering about the difficulties imposed by this sort of argument, because the member for
Auckland Central did not say, as the Prime Minister maintained he said—
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: This isn't a point of order.
Mr Hunt: I have the right to raise a point of order, and I have the right to have it heard
in silence. I am trying to say that there is a very serious difficulty here that has nothing to do
with your ruling, Mr Speaker, with which I concur 100 percent. My point of order is that the
Prime Minister claimed to be answering remarks made by the member for Auckland
Central, but the member for Auckland Central did not say exactly what the Prime Minister
said he had said. I wonder if you could advise us how we go from there?
Mr Prebble: Mr Speaker-
Mr SPEAKER: As the member is involved, I shall hear him briefly, but I do not really
need assistance on this matter.
Mr Prebble: I had intended to raise the point at the end of the Prime Minister's speech,
but since the speech has been broken it might be helpful to him—
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: It isn't in order.
Mr Prebble: The Prime Minister said that I said that the committee-
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: This isn't in order!
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: It's not for you to say that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: It isn't in order!
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We must have one person speaking, not three.
Mr Prebble: The Prime Minister said that I had said, and he said he was quoting-
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: This isn't in order-even he should know that.
Mr Prebble:-that the committee's conclusion was technically correct. I quote from my
notes. What I said, Mr Speaker-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! This must not proceed. The position is that if the honourable
member feels he has been misquoted by another member he is entitled, under very clear
rules, to rise at the end of the speech in which he feels he has been misquoted and say, “A
point of correction", or misquotation- it is often rather vaguely called misrepresentation.
"It was stated by the speaker that I said so and so. What I said was something different."
That is the correct procedure.
As to the earlier point raised, it is quite clear to me that the proper way of dealing with
any alleged error in this matter is in a subsequent speech. It is not as if the whole of the
argument that the Prime Minister was advancing depended on one erroneous-if it were
erroneous-version of what had been said. The broad reasons why the technical line of the
report before the House should not be adopted were presented by two speakers, and the
Prime Minister, although it goes wide of the technicality, is giving the reasons why he feels
that the nontechnical argument should not be adopted by the House.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I will not refer any further to the member for Auckland
Central. I am really directing my remarks to the member for Northern Maori. I made the
point that he was Minister of Lands when this started. It is true that the member for Roskill,
the President of the Labour Party, was Minister of Lands during part of the time that these


## p. 1732 (#188) ###########################################

1732
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
plans were formulated; but the member for Northern Maori was Minister of Lands, and he
cannot disagree with that. It was proposed that some land be given to the Orakei marae,
some land be given to the Youthline Trust, and some land be subdivided--not in the time of
the National Government, but in the time of the Labour Government. That is when this
started.
Hon. M. Rata: That's not correct.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It is no good the member's saying it is not correct. The
plans prepared by the department when he was the Minister, and discussed with the
Auckland City Council, are available—so let us not talk about that not being correct.
Hon. M. Rata: It isn't correct.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: He can keep on saying that as long as he likes. I am
prepared to ask my Minister to put these plans in front of the public and the press, and then
ask him to apologise.
Mr HUNT: A point of order, Mr Speaker, I distinctly heard the member for Northern
Maori say that a certain matter "was" correct. The comments made by the Prime Minister
challenge the word of a member of the House, and I suggest that they are out of order.
Mr SPEAKER: I have been offered some curly ones this morning. An accepted rule is
that the word of a member must be accepted. There must, though, be limits to such a
statement. For instance, in repeated contradictions of words or statements made by
members-someone will say, "This is a good Budget", and someone will say, "It is not a
good Budget"-I do not think one is guilty of transgressing the rule that the word of a
member must be accepted. If a member says, "I wasn't in Wellington last night", he was not,
as far as the rule goes. If, on the other hand, there is an argument as to when a public matter
was first considered by the department, I feel that is a matter of debate rather than a
question of taking some person's word, because there is ample room for mistake as to the
date, the record having been looked at, and so on. I do not think that it is a difficult matter,
or that this is a case where I should say that the word of a member is being challenged. We
have two members with opposite words and opposite views. I should not intervene in that
point.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: This is not fundamentally a matter of Maori land; it has
become a matter of Labour politics. The member for Northern Maori, in introducing the
Bill, is pushing the Labour Party's political barrow, not the interests of the Maori people, or
the interests of his own people. The Government has for many months been careful and
patient with the Maori people of the Ngati Whatua. Two Ministers, the Minister of Maori
Affairs and the Minister of Lands, have spent many hours talking with the representatives of
different sections of the Ngati Whatua. That is why I asked the member for Northern Maori
who it was that was represented by the lawyer whose letter he quoted, and he said, “The
people concerned."
One cannot say "the people concerned" in connection with this issue, because the
people concerned fall into at least three segments. There is the original Ngati Whatua,
recognised by the Government, and their spokesman, Kauharu, appointed properly in
accordance with their tradition. The Government has been dealing with them in a proper
way since last December, and has made an agreement with them. Then there is a group at
Orakei who do not entirely agree, and who have asked to talk to the Government; and
agreement again, I believe, has been reached-certainly, if not, we are not far from it. Then
there is the third group, and I think those are the people to whom the member for Northern
Maori refers: the dissidents, the squatters on Bastion Point. Of the three groups, those least
represent the Ngati Whatua.
Mr Lambert: The Ngati SUP.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: The Ngati SUP is a better name for them-the Ngati
socialist unity party-because throughout this dispute the sinister figure of one, Bill
Andersen, has been present constantly at the discussions on Bastion Point in the presence of
the member for Northern Maori, as he knows, and in the presence of certain other Labour
Party people; but throughout it, the sinister figure of Bill Andersen, the leader of the
Socialist Unity Party, has been dividing the dissidents, month by month.
Dr Wall: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I realise that this debate has gone beyond the
merely technical matter of whether the report should be received and lie upon the table, but
it appears to be stretching the rules of the House extremely to discuss the behaviour of a
certain trade union leader who, along with probably 50 or 60 percent of the inhabitants of
New Zealand, has shown an interest in the events at Bastion Point. The matter for debate
should be the legal technicalities of whether the Bill was appropriately dealt with by the


## p. 1733 (#189) ###########################################

29 July
1733
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
committee, or whether an alternative manner of dealing with it could have been suggested to
the House by the committee.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Speaking to the point of order, Mr Speaker, I suggest that
this point of order has no more validity than the earlier point on which you have already
ruled. In spite of the fact that the rules state that this is a local Bill, it has been put to the
House that we should override those rules, for reasons put forward by the member for
Northern Maori. I am speaking to the reasons put forward by the member for Northern
Maori, and I am explaining to the House- and I hope to the country-why those reasons
are invalid. Having accepted the principle that that is an issue in the debate, I suggest that
the detail must be in order.
Mr SPEAKER: We have an instance here of the undue widening of a debate; but the
basis on which this debate- like others, but even more than many others--has been
widened is the suggestion made that the decision of the committee is a technicality being
used by the Government to block the redress of certain people. That implies that there is a
grievance, and that steps are being taken, through the medium of the decision of the
committee now being reported to the House, to block the proper consideration of a
grievance. For that reason it has been suggested that a different action than adoption of the
report should be followed, and this admittedly very wide-ranging discussion seems directly
related to the unfortunately introduced suggestion that there was a technical blocking of a
proper course of redress. What is being discussed now-and cannot be discussed much
longer, as these are only 10-minute speeches-is the question of whether there was in fact a
grievance that ought to be redressed and the broad picture, which ordinarily I prefer not to
have introduced, on what should be a technical matter. I do not think, in all the circumst-
ances, the matter is out of order.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I repeat that the Government has been careful, patient,
and correct. It has dealt with the proper representatives of the Ngati Whatua, and achieved a
solution to the problem, which cannot be implemented while the dissidents are on Bastion
Point. When I say, "while they are on Bastion Point" it is, of course, a matter of record that
they are mostly sleeping at home and going to Bastion Point during the day. The gesture has
long since become token, even though the public thinks the dissidents are living on Bastion
Point. Their meetings and demonstrations were invariably orchestrated by the same Bill
Andersen and his Socialist Unity Party, and by the same Douglas of the Wellington Branch
of the party, when they were in Wellington.
The dissidents have the support of certain Labour members of Parliament, including the
member for Northern Maori, who sees a chance to stir the political pot. If he was doing his
proper duty by his people, he would be on the side not of the dissidents, but of those
members of the Ngati Whatua who want to get the matter settled. He would be supporting
those proper representatives of the Ngati Whatua who have talked to the Government and
reached a proper solution that gives them back part of their ancestral land, which is what
they want. He would be moving to keep the dissidents off Bastion Point, instead of bringing
in this Bill to stir the pot further.
There is no way that the argument put forward by the member for Northern Maori can
properly override the rules of the House, because it cannot even stand up as an argument.
As recently as last week I had a letter from the paramount chief of the Ngati Whatua, who is
greatly distressed by the acts-one could almost say antics-of some of the younger
members of his tribe, and who wants me, as Prime Minister, to see what the Government can
do to get the matter settled in a proper and honourable manner. I earnestly suggest to the
member for Northern Maori that he cease associating with political people of the extreme
left, who will do nothing but harm to the Maori people.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Hon. M. RÅTA (Northern Maori): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I hesitated to rise
during the Prime Minister's address, but on numerous occasions he suggested that I had
associated with political wings, with an imputation that I had been involved with, or worked
with, members of the Socialist Unity Party and a whole host of other groups of that kind.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: That group specifically.
Hon. M. RATA: That suggestion was made quite forcibly by the Prime Minister. There
is no basis for such a claim. Before the introduction of the Bill, I went to Bastion Point and
denounced the Socialist Unity Party philosophy to a very wide audience. I believe it is highly
disorderly to suggest that a member of the House would in any way associate with, or work
with, such groups as the Socialist Unity Party.


## p. 1734 (#190) ###########################################

1734
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): It is certainly not disorderly. It happens
to be fact that there is any amount of evidence to show that, in supporting the dissidents, the
member for Northern Maori is associating with the Socialist Unity Party, specifically
Andersen-who is also supporting the dissidents-and has appeared with him at Bastion
Point on more than one occasion.
Hon. M. Rata: That is not correct.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Oh yes it is.
Hon. M. Rata: I have never appeared with Mr Andersen at Bastion Point.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: That can be a matter for argument. [Interruption.] The
member is wrong, and we have no way of proving it inside this Chamber.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We are in the middle of one point of order, and we will not have
another. Personally, I prefer that the matter be dropped, because it was not a point of order
in the first place. I thought I would treat it more as a personal explanation. However, as it
was raised as a point of order, other members are entitled to speak. Certain aspects have
now been advanced from both sides, but one statement was clearly of the sort on which I
think a member's word should be accepted. He said, "I was never at Bastion Point" with the
gentleman who has been referred to as a sinister gentleman.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The member did not quite say that. He was very careful in his
choice of words.
Mr SPEAKER: In all events, I think I can rule now, whether or not the House is very
eager that I should. The matter was not a point of order at all, but one that could quite
validly be raised in debate by a person who had not spoken, or it could have been the subject
of a personal explanation with the leave of the House. The facts were put before the House
in a slightly unusual way, and I did not butt in. It would be better if we got on with the
business of the House, which is to consider whether or not the report should lie upon the
table.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): Mr Speaker, I have been misrepresented. The
Prime Minister said I told the House that I believed the committee's decision was technically
correct. Perhaps I could read from my notes what I actually said: "I believe that while
technical argument can be raised in favour of the committee's conclusions that the Bill is a
local Bill, on a borderline case such as this other considerations should have been taken into
account, and we❞—that is, the committee-"should have dealt with the matter as a public
Bill." I then went on to say that, because the Bill went beyond local matters, under Standing
Orders it was a local Bill. I said further: "I therefore believe that within Standing Orders one
can state that this Bill"-the Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill— "is more than
just a local Bill. If it is more than just a local Bill, then it must be a public Bill." I therefore
believe that the committee's conclusion is technically wrong.
Dr WALL (Porirua): We have had this extraordinary performance from the Prime
Minister, who stated that the committee had examined a variety of alternative procedures.
That was his opening argument. It is fairly typical of the man-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! Did I hear the honourable member say "fairly typical of the
man"? He may refer to the honourable member if he likes, but that sort of talk will at once
lower the level of debate.
Dr WALL: Well, fairly typical of the Prime Minister. It is argued—and this is the whole
purpose of the debate that the course of action taken by the committee, on which the
Government has a majority, was the proper one. The Prime Minister said, "Right, then this
becomes correct" and that the proposal put forward by the member for Northern Maori was,
ipso facto, wrong. To me, that makes nonsense of all debate, and increasingly in this country
is making nonsense of any democratic process. The Prime Minister's attitude is that, because
he is the Prime Minister, any decision the Government makes is the right one, and everyone
should stand up and bow. That is exactly the attitude that has caused the intensifying concern
at Bastion Point, which is in the Prime Minister's electorate. The Prime Minister is reputed
to have concern for his constituents, but only if they are of the right racial quality, because
any matter concerning those people in his constituency who have a skin of a different colour
from his-
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest we are going too
far when a member, in referring to the work of another member-no matter who he may
be says that his work is undertaken in relation to his racial views.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: No, his personal qualities.
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider: Well, the quality of his work. The Prime Minister's work
and his association with the Maori and Polynesian people are well known. He has friendship


## p. 1735 (#191) ###########################################

29 July
1735
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
and respect for them, and they for him. To imply in a debate that his work is affected by his
racial views causes great offence to members on this side of the House. The remark should
be ruled out of order.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: May I draw your attention, Mr Speaker, to the actual phrase
used by the member for Porirua? He said, “racial quality". There was, therefore, no
imputation of racism as such. It was the level of the acceptability within a given area. It was
quality of personality, rather than nature of personality.
Dr WALL: Speaking to the point of order, it is a fact that in all constituencies there are
two groups of people represented separately in the House-those of European ancestry, and
those of Maori ancestry. I was drawing attention to the fact that the representative for
Tamaki was not showing the concern that might have been shown for people living in his
constituency who were of a racial group which has separate representation in Parliament.
Mr SPEAKER: This is a very unfortunate matter, and I think that the introduction of
blatant racism into this Chamber should be frowned upon and discouraged as sternly as
possible. I have no direct powers to rule it out on the grounds of racialism, but even if one
adopts the suggested correct words quoted by the member for Henderson, who said that the
expression used was the racial quality of his work, the matter of racism sticks out a mile,
whether it is quality or anything else.
What offended me more was the suggestion creeping in that something happened
because of the colour of someone's skin. This country is very largely free-almost
completely free-of serious racism. What little there may be can be whipped up. I have no
direct power, but I invite members to consider whether they are not inviting the wrath of the
public if they seek to introduce into our public life this abhorrent business of racism and talk
about actions based on the colour of people's skin, unless there is the clearest proof for it,
rather merely making suggestions.
Dr WALL: I have been misled along these paths of error by certain cartoons, which
appeared to be perfectly acceptable on the social scene and on the policial scene, published
on behalf of a political party before the last election. In those cartoons, the Government will
recall-
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. We are discussing a report by the
chairman of the Committee on Bills as to whether a certain Bill should be classed a public
Bill, a private Bill, or a local Bill. What the member for Porirua has now introduced is
apparently a stirring of racism, which is not relevant to the work of the committee, the
report, or the question before the House. I suggest that the member for Porirua be asked to
desist from his continual harping on race.
Mr Hunt: I point out that we have just heard a speech from the Prime Minister that I
thought was very strong indeed from his political viewpoint. We are hearing a reply from the
member for Porirua, who is pointing out to the House the dangers of that viewpoint to all
New Zealanders.
Hon. M. Rata: Mr Speaker, I could not agree more with you on the general view you
hold on unnecessary references to racialism as such. The view expressed by the member for
Porirua was the subject of comment by the Race Relations Conciliator.
Hon. David Thomson: It's got nothing to do with it.
Hon. M. Rata: All right, I accept that perhaps that is so, but the Minister of Justice
suggested that the line taken by the member for Porirua could be said to be stirring up
racialism. I was listening fairly closely to the member for Porirua, and he was commenting on
certain advertisements that appeared before the last election. The issue is the relevance of
that comment to the question before us. I suggest that the point raised by the Minister of
Justice has no validity whatever.
Mr SPEAKER: I think the point is properly taken. Advertisements that appeared
apparently 20 months ago have now been referred to during a debate that the report do lie
upon the table, and be adopted, and agreed to. This matter is brought in presumably in an
endeavour to justify what I call the blatant racist aspects of what has been said. All I can say
is that again that is ruled out as irrelevant to the question that the report do lie upon the
table. I hope that no other racism or attempted justification of what I feel was racism will be
introduced into the debate.
Dr WALL: In the light of your ruling, I find myself at a loss and in some difficulty to
explain why the Prime Minister, as the member for Tamaki, was unable to find the time or
the opportunity, despite repeated invitations, to visit and to inquire into the concerns―
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not think I need a point of order. I imagine that the Minister was


## p. 1736 (#192) ###########################################

1736
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
about to say that this is totally irrelevant to the question that the report do lie upon the table.
Whether or not it was raised, I rule that whether a person came to a place, or what the nature
of advertisments were 20 months ago, is totally irrelevant to the question that the report do
lie upon the table, the report being one from the committee which has decided on the nature
of the Bill-whether it is a public Bill, and, if so, whether it is a local Bill.
Dr WALL: Thank you, Mr Speaker. I am very grateful for the ruling that the activities
of the Prime Minister concerning the matter are irrelevant to the debate, but that the
activities of members of the Socialist Unity Party are relevant. It puts me in considerable
difficulty to carry on the debate when the activities of members of the House are irrelevant,
but the activities of people outside the House are pertinent.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: You cannot reconcile it.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We have had a rude interjection from a member on my left
whom I shall not name unless he repeats such an offensive comment. We had the suggestion
that I made an unfair or unjust ruling, and "You cannot reconcile it", said a rude voice on
my left. The reconciliation is simply this. The remarks made previously about the Socialist
Unity Party were relevant to the question of whether there was a clear grievance that should
be redressed, and whether a technical block was being placed in the way. The question of
whether a member of the House accepted an invitation to go to a place is not relevant to the
question of whether or not there was a distinct grievance, redress of which was being blocked
by a technicality.
Dr WALL: The members of the Socialist Unity Party, no matter what we may think of
their political ideology, are entitled, as every other New Zealander has been under previous
Governments, to express themselves publicly on matters of public concern. Many of them
have a very strong sense of justice and a very great sympathy for those being oppressed.
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. This is not a debate on the
characteristics of members of the Socialist Unity Party. It is a debate on whether or not the
report of the Committee on Bills should lie on the table and be agreed to. I suggest that if the
member for Porirua cannot be relevant then he should be sat down.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not need any assistance with this point. The question of the
Socialist Unity Party and, I think the term was, "a sinister figure" was introduced earlier. It
was then related to the question of whether or not there was a technical block being placed in
the way of redress of a grievance. The fact that the Socialist Unity Party has certain
characteristics seemed relevant to the question of whether or not there was a genuine or
major grievance. A number of references were made to the Moscow-oriented part of the
former Communist Party, and as references to it and its characteristics have already been
introduced in the debate I think it is in order for a brief reply to be made, but it should not be
protracted.
Dr WALL: Thank you for your ruling, Mr Speaker. The Prime Minister alleged that
because members of the Socialist Unity Party-together with, probably, most New
Zealanders have been expressing their concern about the injustices inflicted on the Ngati
Whatua people by the denial of their claim to land at Bastion Point there is something wrong
with the claim, and also with members on this side of the House—notably the member for
Northern Maori-who are prepared to stand on a platform to defend the rights of the Ngati
Whatua people. The Prime Minister argued that the argument posed by the member for
Northern Maori must be wrong, because it is a common argument with that put forward by
Mr Andersen. It is exactly that type of attitude which makes a solution to the Bastion Point
problem impossible under the present Government. This Administration does not concern
itself with the rights and wrongs of a matter, but only with-
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I raise again the point of
relevance. The question before the House is whether the report of the Committee on Bills
should be agreed to; it has nothing whatsoever to do with the merits of the Bill referred to
that committee or to the intentions of the member who promoted the Bill. It has to do only
with the work of the committee and the recommendation the committee has made. In the
words of Standing Order 218, the committee shall "inquire into the character of every Bill so
referred to it and report to the House its opinion whether the Bill is a public Bill or a private
Bill and whether, if a public Bill, it is a local Bill." The debate on the motion moved by the
member for Hawke's Bay should be limited to that aspect.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not need further help on this point. The position is that, at best, the
point being made by the member for Porirua is marginally relevant, but I do not propose to
rule it out because the nature of the debate has been technical on whether or not the report
should lie upon the table and on whether or not the decision that the Bill is of a certain type


## p. 1737 (#193) ###########################################

29 July
1737
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
was a correct one. The point having been raised that it was merely a technical block being
used by the Government to avoid proper redress of a grievance, the question of the
grievance was discussed. I consider that what the member for Porirua has been saying is
remotely, but still somewhat, connected with the overall question of whether or not a
grievance was in effect denied and whether the redress of that grievance is in some way being
technically blocked. Therefore I shall not interfere and will allow him to continue.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I raise the point only because it is
genuinely intended to be helpful. It is with your indulgence today that we have not bound
ourselves by technicalities, and, to a degree, have entered into the merits of the case. It may
be that is an indulgence you now regret, but I suggest to all members that we ought not to
strain your patience by putting too much of an imposition on the indulgence you have
allowed us.
Mr SPEAKER: I am very grateful for that comment. In classical terms I could say
"Them's my feelings".
Dr WALL: I find the role of whipping boy, in which I am at present cast, somewhat
disturbing, particularly as it is only because the Minister of Justice wants to attack the Prime
Minister. The real argument is on the question of whether the appropriate decision has been
made by the committee in its report on the Bill, and therefore whether the report should be
accepted by the House. Any redress the Ngati Whatua people may have will come only
through the activities of the Minister of Lands and his department.
It seems to me totally inappropriate that the Bill should be referred to a committee of
which the Minister of Lands is not a member and does not normally attend. If the Bill is
classed as a local Bill it will come under the influence and control of a department that has no
authority to act on it. If, as the Prime Minister has stated, that is the correct procedure, why
is it that the committee of which the Minister is a member is totally unable to comment on or
deal with the complaint? If another course of action was adopted-one that the Prime
Minister assures us is the wrong course of action, I presume because it would have provided
a possibility for a solution to be found to the problem-the Bill could be referred to another
committee of which the Minister of Lands is normally a member. Surely that would have
been the most appropriate recommendation to make.
I suggest that because of all the unease surrounding the matter, because of the
tremendous concern expressed about the injustices being inflicted upon the Ngati Whatua
people, and because there appears to be a great fear that the Government is continuing the
pattern of dealing with Maori land that brought it so much disgrace in the last century, the
committee should have recommended that the Bill be referred to another committee which
could have taken some action in the matter. The decision made obviously means that the
problem will be swept under the carpet.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I did not think it could be true, but it is
obvious that the member for Porirua has a total lack of appreciation of the procedures of
Parliament and of the needs for those procedures to be followed if democracy in this country
is to be served and if the people who need to be consulted about proposals are to be
consulted. In the motion moved by the member for Hawke's Bay in his position as chairman
of the Committee on Bills, the question is raised whether the character of the Bill introduced
by the member for Northern Maori-the Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill—is a
public Bill, a private Bill, or a local Bill. The Committee on Bills, which, according to the
procedures of Parliament under Standing Order 218 was charged with determining which of
those types of Bills it is, reported to the House that in its opinion it is a local Bill.
Mr Prebble: And we'll vote against it.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes. The member for Auckland Central, the first member
from the socialist side of the House to speak in the debate, has indicated that he is going to
vote against the motion, but he indicated clearly in the committee that it was not a private
Bill-and indeed that was confirmed in his speech this morning-but a local Bill.
Mr Prebble: Nonsense. That's absolute rubbish.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: It is not in dispute, because the member for Auckland
Central indicated to the committee that he thought it ought not to be determined to be a
private Bill, although argument could be adduced to say that it was a private Bill in that it
was proposing to give advantages to a certain group of persons and private Bills generally
had that characteristic. What happens when Parliament decides that it is a local Bill? It will
mean that if the member wants to press his proposals he will not be able to do so in the form
of a local Bill, which this measure is, but will have to go through the procedure of advertising
in the Orakei area of the Auckland isthmus, where the land referred to in the Bill is. He must


## p. 1738 (#194) ###########################################

1738
29 July
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
advise every member of Parliament in that locality-and we all know these procedures—
because it deals with land at Bastion Point, within the Orakei block.
I am sure all members on the socialist side of the House who have experience of the
work of Parliament-and the member for Hutt would be one of those-will know why local
Bills must be advertised according to the Standing Orders. It is so that people can know and
be consulted, and that something shall not be done for an individual group without
everybody in that area being properly consulted. In this way democracy is served. That is
what we should be debating today, not whether a socialist unity front organisation is
involved in this Bill. That has nothing to do with the issue. The member for Auckland
Central and the member for Northern Maori have introduced the so-called merits of the Bill,
but the question before us has nothing to do with that.
In passing, I would say that I believe the member for Auckland Central is capable of
learning that when members of Parliament are appointed to the Committee on Bills their
partisan feelings should not go with them into that committee. In the committee we serve as
members of Parliament, not as members of the National Party or the Labour Party, although
the arguments put forward by the member for Auckland Central this morning suggest that he
did not sit there as a member of Parliament but rather as a member of the Labour Party.
Certainly, his arguments were those of a member of the Labour Party wanting to make a
political football of the merits of the proposals in the Bill.
The work of the committee was technical in nature, to decide how democracy could best
be served by determining whether this is a public, a private, or a local Bill. The committee's
recommendation was that it is a local Bill. If the proposer of the Bill wants to vary it—and
that decision is over to him and not to Parliament-and follow the procedures Parliament
has laid down for the proper consultation of the people of the isthmus, there is nothing to
stop him. Indeed, the historical precedent of the Gimmerburn Forest Bill could well be
authority. That Bill was changed after the Committee on Bills determined it was not in order
in the way it had been introduced. If the House accepts the recommendation of the
committee, it is still open to the member for Northern Maori to follow that course.
Mr HARRISON (Hawke's Bay): It is clear from this debate that some members have
seen the motion as an opportunity to make a political issue of the committee's report. I see
this Committee on Bills, not as a political committee, but as a technical one set up under
Standing Orders to decide a technical question only. I am sure it is clear to all members of
the committee and to all members of the House that it was a technical committee set up to
decide a technical question. It was not for the committee to discuss the merits or content of
the Bill. Those were not matters for debate, except in so far as they related to the question
the committee had to decide, whether the Bill was a private member's public Bill, a private
Bill, or a local Bill.
Party politicking has no place in the Committee on Bills. I would have hoped that
members of that committee would be sufficiently aware of their Standing Orders and their
responsibilities to the House to approach their task within the letter and the spirit of those
rules of Parliament. Certainly, that was the attitude adopted by most members of the
committee, including the member for Eastern Maori. It has been suggested that this
committee brought down a report based on a technicality. Of course it did; it had to. If
Parliament is to expect the people to obey the laws of New Zealand, then members of
Parliament are expected to obey their own laws, the Standing Orders, and abide by their
own rules.
This debate has revolved largely around the merits of the Bill and whether certain other
actions should have been allowed by the report of the committee. I assure the House that, so
long as I chair the Committee on Bills, I shall do my best to see that its reports are based, not
on expediency because certain members would like a certain course of action to be followed
as a result of the committee's report, but on the rules of Parliament, the Standing Orders, as
we understand them. That is the basis of the committee's report.
The House divided on the question That the report do lie upon the table and be adopted
and agreed to.
AYES, 39
Adams-Schneider; Austin, H. N.; Brill; Comber; Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott;
Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Friedlander; Gair; Gill; Harrison; Highet; Holland; Jones, D.
M. J.; Jones, N. P. H.; Lambert; Lapwood; Lithgow; McCready; MacIntyre; McLachlan;
McLay; Malcolm; Quigley; Schultz; Talbot; Templeton; Thomson; Walker; Walls; Waring;


## p. 1739 (#195) ###########################################

29 July
1739
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering) Bill
Wellington; Wilkinson.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
NOES, 27
Arthur; Bailey; Barclay; Batchelor; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Douglas;
Faulkner; Finlay; Freer; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; Lange; MacDonell; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble;
Rata; Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall.
Tellers: Drayton; Young, T. J.
Pairs
For: Austin, W. R.; Bolger; La Varis.
Against: Blanchfield; Reweti; Fraser.
Majority for: 12.
Motion agreed to.
TERRITORIAL SEA AND EXCLUSIVE ECONOMIC ZONE BILL
Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury): I am directed by the Foreign Affairs Committee to
present the report of the committee on the Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone
Bill. The committee recommends that the Bill be allowed to proceed as amended. I move,
That the report do lie upon the table. The Foreign Affairs Committee heard submissions from
members of the public on this very significant legislation. In all, 17 submissions were made,
and the committee was grateful for the effort that went into their preparation. Several
amendments have been proposed by the committee. In general they are of a minor nature.
Almost without exception the submissions endorsed the overall scheme of the Bill. Many
focused on the way in which the zone should be managed when the Bill comes into force
rather than on the Bill itself. The committee has also adopted a number of drafting
amendments which have shortened and simplified the text. We have also taken the
opportunity to close a number of possible loopholes which may have existed in the Bill.
I shall highlight some of the amendments. The first is to clause 2(1), where the
definition of "fish" has been tightened to clearly include crustacea. We have also clarified
the definition of "fishing" by inserting a new paragraph (c) to emphasise that the powers
contained in the Bill will apply not only to vessels actually fishing in the zone, but also to
mother ships and support vessels providing supplies and assistance for foreign fishing vessels.
It is conceivable that fishing operations could be conducted from submarines or craft
without propulsion, and to close up any possible loophole these have been included in the
definition of "fishing craft". The "nautical mile" is internationally recognised to be 1852
metres, and it seemed desirable to add that to the definition for the sake of clarity. The
definition of "New Zealand fishing craft" has obviously created some difficulties. It was
clear from many of the submissions that the complex legal formulae used in the Bill have led
people to suppose that joint venture craft are classified as foreign craft. Although it is not
technically necessary, an amendment to simplify the present definition seemed desirable,
and the amendment clearly establishes the position of joint venture boats, which are all
registered under the Fisheries Act.
In clause 15(3)(h) it seemed desirable to include the words "pipelines and cables".
There is a clearly established right under international law for a coastal State to claim
compensation for damage caused to submarine cables and pipelines, and we decided to
insert this provision specifically for licences issued for foreign fishing vessels. At the same
time the committee also considered measures to protect pipelines, particularly the Maui
pipeline, from damage. The Bill will have the effect of conferring jurisdiction over foreign
vessels in that regard within the 12-mile limit of the new territorial zone. Beyond that the
Submarine Cables and Pipelines Act 1954 establishes control over New Zealand fishing
boats. Those are the limits of New Zealand's jurisdiction. It seems that the Law of the Sea
Conference will not give coastal States jurisdiction for this purpose over foreign ships on the
high seas. Accordingly the committee and officials have looked at alternative means of
protecting New Zealand's pipelines and cables.
This Bill gives the Government wide powers over foreign fishing vessels. There are
heavy penalties, and it is proposed that the powers should be used to effectively prohibit


## p. 1740 (#196) ###########################################

1740
29 July
Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone Bill
activities which might present a danger to pipelines. That proposal is acceptable to Maui
Development Ltd. Similarly, administrative action will be taken to guard against the much
more remote possibility of damage by foreign merchant vessels. The committee received
written confirmation from Maui Development Ltd about its original concern. Its chairman,
Sir Arnold Nordmeyer, said, "These proposals are acceptable to my company and will, I
believe, give the basic protection we need." It is very important that Maui Development Ltd
is quite satisfied with the Bill as it is now being reported back.
Subclauses 19(2) and 19(5) referred to owners. They have been deleted, because under
clause 15(1) licences may be issued only to owners of vessels. It is also proposed to establish
a new offence in respect of a vessel which conceals or falsely displays a licence or
identification. Subclause (7) has also been amended to ensure that a New Zealand observer
or fisherman on board a vessel for training purposes under clause 15(3)(k) is not guilty of an
offence under this section. In a submission on clause 23 dealing with the review of the
Minister's powers by the courts it was felt that the provision was inadequate, and a new
clause 20A was drafted on the basis that foreign fishing vessels should not have the right to
challenge the Minister's decisions in the courts.
Members will note a major amendment to clause 23. Several submissions referred to the
desirability of ensuring that security is lodged to cover the value of the fish caught by an
arrested vessel. The proposed amendment ensures that the Crown has the power to hold fish
on either a detained vessel or elsewhere. If it is held elsewhere, the Crown may recover the
costs and will not be liable for any deterioration. In addition, if the vessel is released on
bond, security must be lodged for the value of the fish as well. Clause 27 is of major
importance. Many submissions stressed the need for interim measures to protect fish
resources before the Bill as a whole came into force. The new subclause (2) strengthens and
tightens this provision by specifically providing that such regulations may establish offences
and impose penalties.
The amendment to clause 29 is a technical one, because recent nautical charts have not
been using the mean low water spring tides as a basic point for the low water mark.
Accordingly, the previous wording is not accurate in all cases, and the problem has been
solved by referring to specific charts held by the Navy hydrographic office in Auckland which
are used as a master set for establishing these lines. The proposed amendment makes the
clause considerably shorter and simpler, and means that the definition of low water mark
contained in clause 2 can be deleted. The proposed new subclause in clause 31 deals with the
problem presented in a number of Acts that specifically refer to the 12-mile fishing zone,
which will be abolished when this Bill becomes law. It was therefore necessary to provide
that these references shall be construed as references to the territorial sea, which will now
extend to 12 miles in its place. The Bill is very important for New Zealand's future
development, and I am pleased to report that, without exception, the submissions supported
an early implementation of its provisions.
Mr COURTNEY (Nelson): I am proud to have been a member of the committee that
considered the submissions from people in the fishing industry, and particularly those in the
off-shore fishing industry, which this Bill will help to protect. The Opposition supports the
Bill, because it is a measure giving control over the exploitation of, and seeking to conserve
and manage, one of our natural resources. The message that came through to the committee
was that the Bill should be passed as quickly as possible. Most of the submissions pointed out
that the protection of our resources was a matter of urgency. Some people said that we
should not overemphasise the size of the resource, which is unknown at the present time; but
we all hope it will be significant. Our present fishing stock and the future of the off-shore
industry must be protected. I am sure it will mean a lot in the future.
The Bill follows closely the revised single negotiating text that formed the basis of the
Law of the Sea Conference held in New York. The chairman of the committee drew
attention to the amendments. I suggest that the Minister of Fisheries should note carefully
the comments made about clause 27. A request was made to act immediately to retain the
status quo. There was not much criticism of the Bill, but the New Zealand University
Students Association did not want us to share the resources with anyone, and a gentleman
with interests in the Chatham Islands suggested that all fish caught around the islands should
be landed there, or that a tax should be imposed, which would go to the Chatham Islands.
Many of the submissions made constructive comments on the regulations that will cover the
issuing of licences. Clause 15(3) states that the Minister may attach to the licence conditions
relating to all or any of 18 categories. The general feeling from the submissions was that this
gave the Minister wide-ranging powers, and the Opposition also feels some concern. The


## p. 1741 (#197) ###########################################

29 July
1741
Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone Bill
industry has asked to be kept informed on the issue of licences, and the conditions that have
been attached. The industry also wanted to be kept fully informed of the terms and
conditions that will apply to each country involved in joint ventures.
On the question of licence fees, some of the submissions suggested they should be set at
a low level so as not to work against our tuna fishermen who might have to enter the waters
of foreign countries. Others felt that the fees should be set at a very high level to put
something back into the industry for future development. Some interesting opinions came
forward on fish-meal plants, and most people felt that foreign fishing vessels should not be
allowed into our zone with fish-meal plants on board. Although some members felt they
should be allowed, I am apprehensive about that. Another good point put forward by the
Federation of Commercial Fishermen and the Fishing Industry Board was that the maximum
sustainable yield from our 200-mile economic zone and our catching capabilities should be
recognised, and that in establishing the catching capabilities a certain amount of room should
be allowed for expansion and development of the industry. We must be mindful of the
future, and if we rapidly expand our off-shore fishing interests within the 200-mile economic
zone we should leave a margin to accommodate the expansion that will no doubt follow. It
will develop despite the Government, not because of it.
The Opposition supports the legislation. There was concern about maintaining competi-
tiveness between our fishermen and foreign fishermen, and about the responsibilities placed
on the Minister. Concern was expressed about the need for an interim transitional measure
to be applied to clause 27, and the need to continue discussions about the implementation of
the Bill. The Minister should keep the industry fully informed about the conditions for
licensing and joint ventures. The Opposition is pleased to see the legislation come back from
the committee, and will support it by assisting the House to move the Bill through all its
stages with urgency.
Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury): I am very pleased that the Opposition is giving its full
support to this most significant and important legislation. It is important that the Opposition
and the Government go forward together to pass the Bill, because of the impact it will have
on our short-, medium-, and long-term development. I am very pleased with the support
expressed by the member for Nelson, and I ignore the few political asides that he made. New
Zealand has the fourth largest economic zone in the world. The reporting back and the
passing of the Bill will present a great challenge that will be accepted by the Government and
those responsible for the development of our fisheries and other resources within the
economic zone.
Motion agreed to.
RESERVES BILL
Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury): I am directed by the Lands and Agriculture Commit-
tee to present the report of the committee on the Reserves Bill. The committee recommends
that the Bill be allowed to proceed as amended. I move, That the report do lie upon the table.
The committee received 53 submissions on the Reserves Bill, and 22 people appeared before
the committee. Submissions came from local bodies, conservation organisations, concerned
individuals, Maori groups, and other groups that will make use of the Bill's provisions, such
as the Historic Places Trust and the Play Centres Association.
A very pleasing aspect of most of the submissions was the large measure of acceptance
the Bill received. This confirms that the time is right for the consolidation and updating of
the existing legislation, the Reserves and Domains Act 1953. Most of the criticism, and this
appeared in 14 submissions, was about the lack of greater opportunities for the public to
have its say before decisions are made affecting reserves. The validity of this criticism was
accepted by the committee, and amendments to overcome the deficiency have been
recommended.
Clause 25 deals with a change of classification or purpose and the revocation of reserves,
and includes provision for advertising and objection procedures. It is intended that similar
procedures be introduced into other clauses where some disposition of the reserve, or some
loss of general principle of freedom of access to a reserve, is involved. The clauses are clause
48, grant of easement; clause 54, leasing of recreation reserves; clause 56, leasing of scenic
reserves; clause 73, leasing of recreation reserves for farming, grazing, or afforestation; and
clause 74, grant of temporary leases to occupy. The same procedure will apply to clause
16-Minister to classify reserves-as the initial classification of a reserve is fundamental to
its future management.


## p. 1742 (#198) ###########################################

1742
29 July
Reserves Bill
A slightly different procedure is proposed for clause 41, management plans; and the
committee has recommended an amendment that, first, requires an administering body to
publicly notify its intention to prepare a management plan and invite public comment and
suggestion; secondly, requires the body, when the draft plan is prepared, to publicly notify
its availability for inspection and invite comment in writing, with the right to appear before
the administering body in support of that comment; and, thirdly, requires the administering
body, when submitting the plan to the Minister for his approval, to attach a summary of
objections with comment on the extent to which these have been accepted or rejected. The
adoption of these amendments will place the Reserves Bill in the forefront of legislation,
making provision for extensive public involvement.
Some of the submissions raised the question of the relationship of the Bill to the Town
and Country Planning Act, and asked which Act takes precedence. The present position is
dictated by the designation of the district scheme. This is expressly provided in the Town and
Country Planning Act, under section 33A, which states that land designated for a public
work defined to include reserves does not come under the zoning of the operative district
scheme as far as construction, execution, or operation of the public work is concerned. In
effect this puts a reserve designated as such beyond the zoning of the operative district
scheme as long as use or development is in terms of that designation, and is authorised in
terms of the Reserves and Domains Act. Nevertheless, as a result of submissions, the
committee has accepted two cases where district scheme provisions could be accepted in lieu
of the public notification of the Reserves Bill. These are clause 14, headed "Local authority
may declare land vested in it to be a reserve," and clause 15-"Exchange of reserves for
other land". Amendments to both clauses are accordingly recommended by the committee.
Submissions were made by the New Zealand Maori Council, the Terawhiti District
Maori Council, and the Maori Graduates Association. The three submissions covered
similar ground, and were based on a concern for the retention and promotion of, and respect
for, Maori culture and tradition. As a result of the submissions the committee proposes
amendments as follows: the inclusion in clause 2 of an additional subclause that provides that
Maori reservations created under the Maori Affairs Act are not subject to the Bill; in clause
25(a)-effect of revocation of reserve or change of classification for purpose-the inclusion
of a subclause to provide that where the land was gifted by Maoris the Minister shall, unless
he considers it would not be in the public interest, offer the land back to the former owner or
his descendants; a provision in clause 35 that a Maori trust board may be appointed to
control and manage a reserve; the widening of the provisions of clause 38 to include a Maori
trust board and Maori incorporation among those that may be appointed to control and
manage land that is not a reserve.
Concern was expressed that where Maori land not on a land transfer register was to be
taken under the Public Works Act for reserve purposes there was no procedure for the
owners' interest to be protected. To meet this, subclause 12 has been amended to provide for
notice to be served on the Registrar of the Maori Land Court so that the owners can be
advised and a trustee appointed to look after their interests. General concern was expressed
in the three submissions about the dwindling area of land retained in Maori ownerships, and
its vulnerability to alienation, particularly as so much of the land remaining is still in its
natural state, or is so located that it is admirably suited for reserve purposes. The concern is
appreciated, and it is for these very reasons that provision exists in the Bill for alternatives to
outright purchase.
Following the introduction of the Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone Bill,
and the increasing level of fishing activity in the general area of New Zealand's outlying
reserves, it has been agreed that a new clause be inserted in the offences provisions of the
Bill concerning the stopping and searching of boats, and also that the existing penalty and
breach of bylaw clauses, Nos. 102 and 103, be omitted and replaced with clauses providing
for a variable penalty depending on the importance of the reserve. The outlying islands are
of international importance, as they include some of the world's last remaining areas of
vegetation unmodified by man or his introduced animals. Landing rights to the reserves are
strictly controlled, and generally granted only for genuine scientific reasons. Uncontrolled
visits could lead to the introduction of foreign plants, fires, the release of cats or rodents, or
interference with nesting birds or nursing mammals. The very isolation of the islands makes
them difficult to police, and the New Zealand Navy is really the only means. The new clause
99A provides that a vessel can be boarded if it is suspected that an offence has been
committed. Without this kind of authority the islands would be unprotected from man or his
introduced fauna or flora.


## p. 1743 (#199) ###########################################

29 July
1743
Reserves Bill
I have dealt only with some of the major points that arose from the submissions received
by the committee, which gave such detailed consideration to this piece of legislation. Many
amendments are recommended by the committee, some of a minor nature. Some amend-
ments are the result of a compromise. For example, local authorities sought a much greater
right to deal with reserves in their own way, and without recourse to the department or the
Minister. Some conservation groups considered that local bodies had too many powers
already, and that those powers should be curbed or done away with altogether. The
committee felt that neither group had substantiated its point of view, and instead recom-
mended that local bodies be included amongst those parties in clause 10 to whom the
Minister may delegate his powers. This means that the Minister will decide in each case the
powers that he will delegate, and to which local bodies. In terms of clause 10, conservation
groups could also be delegated powers by the Minister.
The committee would like to place on record its thanks to those individuals, groups, and
organisations that made submissions on the Bill. Many worthwhile suggestions were made,
and where practical they were included in the Bill. Finally-
Hon. Members: Hooray!
Mr TALBOT: I hope they will clap when I have recorded this. I should like to record the
outstanding work done by Mr Jack McVeagh, Parliamentary Counsel, who had the responsi-
bility of drafting the Reserves and Domains Act 1953, and now sees the reporting back of its
successor, the Reserves Bill.
Motion agreed to.
CONTRACTUAL MISTAKES BILL
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I am directed by the Statutes Revision Committee to present
the report of the committee on the Contractual Mistakes Bill. The committee recommends
that the Bill be allowed to proceed as amended. I move, That the report do lie upon the table.
This is a complex Bill based on a report of the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform
Committee. It is appropriate that, before summarising the changes recommended by the
Statutes Revision Committee, I should outline briefly the original intent and purpose of the
Bill, which remain intact even with the changes recommended by the committee. I do this
because all those who made submissions to the committee, except one, appeared to us not to
understand fully the intent and purposes of the Bill.
In the contractual situation several different types of mistakes can arise. The first
possible mistake is as to the nature of the document. The second is as to the terms on which
an agreement has been reached. The third is as to the identity of one of the contracting
parties. The fourth is as to the subject-matter of the contract itself. Until now, the whole
field of contractual mistakes has been dealt with by case law, which has categorised various
types of mistake and developed different lines of authority in each. However, the common
principle that can be gleaned is that in all cases the law must strike a balance between
avoiding the inference of holding a party to an inappropriate transaction, on the one hand,
and protecting parties to a contract and those who claim through or under it, on the other.
There have been a number of criticisms of the present law. First, the tests for mistakes
have been described as inherently meaningless, and have resulted in conflicting decisions. In
order to reach a just result, the courts have created illusory distinctions; that this has
occurred in such an important field has caused considerable criticism. Secondly, the law had
considerable difficulty in coping with the concept of negligence in this area. Again, there
have been conflicting decisions, which have failed to distinguish between carelessness on the
one hand and negligence on the other. Thirdly, the theoretical foundations of the law in this
field have always been regarded as suspect. There has been confusion between common law
and the equitable doctrines of mistake, which are directly contradictory in many respects. By
comparison, the United States of America has a uniform approach to this field of law, and
the view of the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee was that the problems
involved in contractual mistakes are not so complex as to require more than one legal
doctrine to unravel them. Fourthly, the legal remedies available as the result of a mistake are
drastic and inflexible, resulting basically in no contract. As a result, the courts have been
reluctant to commit themselves to a clear policy in defining mistake, thereby avoiding a
substantial injustice to one party.
The Bill as introduced, although it did not interfere with a number of equitable
doctrines and did not interfere with the court's discretion to decline to order a decree of
specific performance, did provide that relief should be granted where a mistake by one party


## p. 1744 (#200) ###########################################

1744
29 July
Contractual Mistakes Bill
to a contract is known to the opposing party, or is a common or a mutual mistake. The Bill
then prescribed various types of relief that would be available in those circumstances.
The committee received seven submissions on the Bill. Five were from parties
connected either with the building industry or with property development, and suggested
that the Bill should not apply to contracts for the sale of land or contracts for construction,
and to other certain types of contractual arrangements. None of these submissions, however,
appeared to understand that the Bill applies only to mutual or common mistakes, or where a
mistake is known to the other party. Drafting changes have been suggested, particularly to
clause 5, that should make this point very much clearer.
The New Zealand Institution of Engineers made submissions on the question of
arbitration, and this is dealt with in the new proposed clause 8B.
The final submission, which caused the committee the most concern, was from Mr
Hughes of Metropolitan Real Estate, very ably supported by his solicitor, Mr V. M. Gray. In
essence, this submission suggested that the Bill, which both Mr Hughes and his solicitor
clearly understood, would open up a whole new area of litigation and a new line of legal
authority, which would of itself create uncertainty in contractual arrangements-and these
contractual arrangements might very well involve very large sums of money. The committee
gave that submission the most anxious consideration, and has proposed a number of changes
that are designed, basically, to make the Bill's intention clearer. First, we recommend that
the definition of mistake in clause 2 should be limited to mistakes of law and fact only.
Secondly, in order to make the intention of the Bill clearer, we propose to add clause 3A,
which sets out the purpose of the Bill in greater detail. In its original form, although it
correctly expressed the purposes of the Bill, clause 5 was not easily understood-particularly
by the majority of lay persons who came before the committee. The clause has therefore
been substantially redrafted by the committee, although its intention remains unchanged,
with some minor exceptions.
The remaining changes to the Bill are very largely procedural, giving jurisdiction to a
small claims tribunal for claims under $500, and to an arbitrator when a matter is referred
under the Arbitration Act 1908.
As I have emphasised in this report, the Bill is complex; in the initial stages particularly,
it caused the committee some concern. This concern was to a very large degree alleviated by
the detailed discussion we had with Mr Colin Patterson, who is the chairman of the Contracts
and Commercial Law Reform Committee; the Chief Parliamentary Counsel, Mr Iles, who is
also a member of that law reform committee; and with Mr Wright of the Department of
Justice, who is the secretary of that committee. We are indebted to these gentlemen for their
help. The committee is now confident that the Bill in its amended form will not only give
effect to the intentions of the original report by the law reform committee, but is also now
very much clearer and very much more easily understood; and thus, we hope, it will very
largely allay the apprehensions expressed by those who made submissions on the Bill.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I can agree with the member for Birkenhead in at
least one respect: the law of contractual mistake is complex and the situations envisaged by it
are by no means easy to comprehend; but for the rest I feel obliged to say at the outset that I
intend to move that the Bill be referred back for further consideration. The real trouble is, of
course, that the word "mistake" means one thing to a lawyer-at any rate in relation to a
contract—and a very different thing to the man in the street. This confusion was encouraged,
as was obvious from the way some witnesses approached their task of giving evidence, by the
terms of the original Bill, which defines "mistake" as including an erroneous opinion and an
erroneous calculation. To the layman, that could readily include the wrong addition of a
column of figures; that is a mistake in ordinary layman's language, but it is not a mistake in
law. What a lawyer means by a contractual mistake is a very different thing.
The original Bill was based on the report of the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform
Committee, which put forward what seemed to me at the outset to be an attractively simple
manner of reforming the law. When I first saw the Bill that was based on that report, I must
confess I leant in its direction. However, my faith in it was considerably shaken by, amongst
other things, the evidence given to the committee by Mr V. R. W. Gray-not Mr V. M.
Gray-a lawyer for whom I have a mounting respect every time he appears before a
parliamentary committee. His criticism was blunt indeed. He said, "If the Bill is enacted in
its present form, it will be (a) a godsend to lawyers now underemployed after the demise of
matrimonial property litigation; (b) a haven for the ruthless, the desperate, and the
unscrupulous; and (c) a curse to the honest, fair-dealing, and innocent." To be quite honest,
I think that that criticism is a little extravagant, but at least it shows clearly where he stood on


## p. 1745 (#201) ###########################################

29 July
1745
Contractual Mistakes Bill
the subject.
While we have made some changes that I believe he would approve of, I still have little
doubt that he would adhere to his original proposition, which was that, although the existing
law is complex, it is comparatively well settled, and to change it either as originally
intended or even now with the Bill as amended-will set in motion a whole new round of
litigation in order to determine just what the apparently simplified provisions of the law
really do mean, and how they apply to the situations that face the courts.
Just to give the House an indication of the kind of complexity involved, I shall
summarise six different conceptual situations that the law has to wrestle with; these were put
before the committee by Mr Gray. I make the basic assumption that a factual situation, that I
can describe as X, is fundamental to the parties entering into a contract. It is imagined that A
and B are the two would-be contracting parties. A tells B that he believes X to be true. This
may have a number of consequential results: (1) B has no idea whether X is true or not; (2) B
doubts it, but says nothing; (3) B doubts it, and tells A of his doubts; (4) B knows X is not the
case, but says nothing; (5) B knows X is not the case, and raises the doubt-for example,
tells A to check-but does not categorically disabuse A; and (6) B knows X is not the case,
and tells A so, but A disbelieves it. That may sound rather confusing; it certainly presents a
confusing set of circumstances, all of which may, as the law now stands, produce different
results. So what seems on the face of it to be a simple failing of minds to come together can
result in a number of very different legal consequences, and that is the kind of situation the
law has to grapple with. It is by no means to be concluded that those exhaust all the
possibilities that must be contemplated.
On two or three occasions the committee found it prudent just to say, "Well, we have
debated this for several hours. Let us stop, go away, and come back again." We did that—I
think with some improvement to the Bill-but I am still very much in doubt as to whether we
have achieved perfection yet. I have very grave doubts that we will not be calling upon the
courts to fill up the gaps that we leave, and to apply new interpretations. What troubles
me-and this view was put to the committee very strongly-is that this will have to be done
at the expense of the private litigants. Our job is to make the law as complete, as perfect, and
as fine as we possibly can. Inevitably, some statutes have to be the subject of judicial
interpretation, but we should minimise that to the greatest possible degree. I have a fear
that, if we enact the Bill in even its amended form, we shall be submitting to the courts, and
to those who will have to take their problems to the courts, the task of interpreting the law we
have set out to make. I do not believe that we should repose the expense and trouble of
doing that on the private citizen. If we had another go at it, we could come up with a still
better Bill than the admittedly improved one that has been reported back. Accordingly, I
move, as an amendment, That all the words after "That" be deleted, and the following words
substituted, "the Bill be referred back to the Statutes Revision Committee for further con-
sideration.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) seconded the amendment.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I was surprised to hear the member for Henderson suggest
that the Bill be referred back to the select committee. I remind him that only 2 nights ago,
when he and I discussed with the Senior Government Whip the appropriate way of dealing
with the Bill, he indicated that he intended to suggest—and I think quite properly—that this
very complex measure should lie on the table of the House for some time before it was finally
dealt with in its remaining stages, to give the public an opportunity to look at the proposed
changes. The member now suggests that the Bill go back to the select committee, in which,
of course, it will be tied up for some time, and the public will have no opportunity to peruse
any proposed changes. The Minister's intention is that the Bill should lie on the table of the
House to enable lawyers and other persons interested in this section of the law to look at the
matter in greater detail. There is no need to return the measure to the select committee at
this stage.
I do not share the apprehension of the member for Henderson about this legislation now
that the work of the select committee has been done. I remind the member that this is not
just legislation that has been recently introduced, but is based on a very good report by the
Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee, which is probably one of the most high-
powered law reform committees sitting at present. In the past, this committee has suggested,
especially for the work of the Statutes Revision Committee, some of the finest law reform in
recent years. The Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Committee did not produce this
legislation out of a hat. It was a draft based on many hours, weeks, and, in fact, years, of
work on the paper prepared by Mr R. J. Sutton, a senior lecturer in the law faculty at the
7-Vol. 412


## p. 1746 (#202) ###########################################

1746
29 July
Contractual Mistakes Bill
University of Auckland. All of the work done by the committee was distilled into the original
Bill, which has been improved upon by the select committee.
If there was a problem with the original Bill—and it has been acknowleged in the way
the Bill has been reported back-it was that it was almost too perfect in its form. In other
words, it was pure lawyers' law. It stated the law in a way that perhaps the most qualified and
experienced lawyer could understand, but not in a way that many people, including some
lawyers, could understand. What we have managed to do with the Bill-and I am sure the
member for Henderson will agree-is make the legislation readily understandable without
changing its original intent or purpose. As I indicated in my report to the House, the Bill has
been most carefully and anxiously considered by the select committee. There is no need for it
to be further considered. It is much more appropriate that it should lie upon the table of the
House for a reasonable time to enable members of the public who may have a further
interest in it to make any comments.
The House divided on the question, That the amendment be agreed to.
AYES, 26
Arthur; Bailey; Barclay; Batchelor; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Douglas;
Faulkner; Finlay; Freer; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; Lange; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble; Rata;
Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall.
Tellers: Drayton; Young, T. J.
NOES, 36
Adams-Schneider; Austin, H. N.; Brill; Comber; Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott;
Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Friedlander; Gair; Gill; Highet; Holland; Jones, D. M. J.;
Jones, N. P. H.; Lambert; Lapwood; Lithgow; MacIntyre; McLachlan; McLay; Malcolm;
Quigley; Schultz; Talbot; Templeton; Thomson; Walls; Waring; Wellington; Wilkinson.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
Pairs
For: Fraser; Reweti; Wetere.
Against: La Varis; Bolger; Austin, W. R.
Majority against: 10.
Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to.
CITIZENS AND ALIENS BILL
Interrupted debate on the question, That the report do lie upon the table; and the
amendment proposed thereto.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): When I spoke previously, I referred to a series of specious
arguments raised by the member for Auckland Central on this issue. I had dealt with one of
them. The second point the member raised was an alleged absence in the Bill of an
opportunity to review a ministerial decision to deprive a person of citizenship. That is surely
what the member for Auckland Central was referring to, because he said, "To lose one's
citizenship is a very serious step❞—and I hope I quote him correctly.
Mr Hunt: Of course it is.
Mr QUIGLEY: The member who is interjecting is apparently not aware that in the case
of clause 12 of the Bill there is specific provision to allow the court to review the decision of
the Minister. Clause 18 (2) states: "Every person upon whom a notice is served under
subsection (1) of this section may, within 28 days after it is served on him, apply to the
Supreme Court for a declaration that there are insufficient grounds to justify the making of
an order...". That provision is already there, and I ask the member for Henderson or
perhaps the member for Mangere, if either rises in this debate, to confirm that what I say
is
correct.
Mr Lange: It is not there for application.
Mr QUIGLEY: The member for Mangere states that there is no provision to review
applications for grants of citizenship. Perhaps he is not aware of the provisions of section 4 of
the Judicature Amendment Act. A person who is refused citizenship in the circumstances set


## p. 1747 (#203) ###########################################

29 July
1747
Citizens and Aliens Bill
out in clauses 8 and 9 is not deprived of anything; he has applied for something to be granted
to him. The member for Henderson may care to deal with this topic in detail. I am sure he is
familiar with it after the role he played in the Pagliari case, which caused an upset at the
time. However, I shall not say any more about it.
Another matter raised by the member for Auckland Central-and he was again
incorrect-related to clause 10, which refers to oaths of allegiance. To set the record
straight, let me emphasise that the Statutes Revision Committee was unanimous that an oath
of allegiance should be required in particular cases. It was also unanimous that it was
impracticable for the proposed provision to be incorporated within the law, and it therefore
agreed to the inclusion of clause 10 without amendment.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): The purpose of the debate is to report on the
proceedings of the committee and to justify the amendment moved that the Bill be referred
back to the committee for reconsideration. Therefore I propose to speak on that point, as
briefly as I can. The matter came before the committee called during the recess, and at the
outset the chairman made it very plain that he attached considerable importance to
concluding our discussions, so that we could report the Bill back to the House as soon as it
resumed the following week. In the event, that has not happened, but that was his objective.
There was no evidence whatsoever in the Bill itself of any need for haste. Indeed, as I shall
explain to the House in a moment, it was clear that the Government failed to make up its
own mind on a significant aspect of the Bill. None the less, it was made very clear indeed that
we had to complete our work. I was driven, as, of course, were my colleagues, to the
alternative conclusion that the need for urgency was attached not in any way to the Bill itself,
but to the proceedings of the House. In other words, it was considered that the committee
should show some justification for its work by reporting the Bill back rather than by giving
colour to the real reason for the recess, which was that the House was running out of
business and had no work to keep it busy.
I referred to the Government's failure to make up its mind. That was explained when we
were informed that the Minister in charge of the Bill, the Minister of Internal Affairs,
intended to make new provisions with regard to aliens. A charge of discourtesy has been
levelled against the Minister and rebutted with some asperity by the member for Rangiora,
and of course I unhesitatingly accept the rebuttal. Indeed, I must say that I have always
found the Minister of Internal Affairs more than ordinarily courteous, and I am sure he
intended no offence or discourtesy to the committee. However, it was certainly an unusual
way of conveying an intimation to committee members. The chairman of the committee read
to us a portion of a letter he had received from the Minister to the effect that the Minister
was considering a move that would eliminate Part III of the Bill entirely, and would also
have very considerable effects on other clauses. As I say, that information was contained in a
private letter given to the chairman, part of which was read to committee members.
I should have thought that the proper procedure to follow would have been for the
Minister to circularise all members of the committee indicating what he wanted to do and the
changes he proposed to make. Indeed, in my experience it is usual for a Minister to attend
the meetings of a committee considering a Bill under his sponsorship, on many occasions it
has been the custom that he replaces the Minister who happens normally to be a member of
the appropriate committee.
However, for reasons best known to himself, the Minister chose to communicate with
the chairman, and we learned that it was his intention or partly formed intention-to bring
in a Bill relating to aliens that would make the provisions for the registration of aliens in this
Bill otiose, and that there would then be yet another Bill. Apparently, that is still in his
mind. However, to enable the Bill to be reported back to the House, it was agreed to
consider it in its present form, with the possibility that a Supplementary Order Paper would
be tabled in the Committee stage, deleting Part III and making sundry amendments to other
clauses. I still believe that the better course would have been to wait for the Government to
make up its mind, and to have either one complete Bill or two separate Bills before the
House.
I want to deal with only one other clause. Of course, I confirm the point made by the
member for Rangiora that clause 18 provides for a review of a decision by a Minister to
deprive a person of citizenship. The suggestion we made—and indeed, this was suggested to
the committee by the Committee on Women and the National Council of Women, who
made a joint submission—was that there should be a right of review not only of a deprival of
citizenship, but also of a failure to grant citizenship. When I asked the witnesses whether
they would favour a general review, not only of citizenship but also of orders of deportation,
7°


## p. 1748 (#204) ###########################################

1748
29 July
Citizens and Aliens Bill
they readily agreed. We want the matter to be reconsidered for that reason-so that it can be
determined whether there should be some form of judicial review of ministerial decisions in
the fields of both citizenship and deportation. This is a move made in recent years in both
Great Britain and Canada, and one I think we could well emulate. For that reason, I support
the amendment before the House.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs): I want to reply briefly to the
member for Henderson, and to say that no discourtesy whatever was intended. I appreciate
his comments. Actually, I would have been present at the meeting, but I was absent from
Wellington on that day. I also make the point that, when I wrote to the chairman of the
Statutes Revision Committee, I thought that he would read the whole letter to the
committee. In the circumstances, I think he was correct in being a little cautious, as he
thought I had written to him personally. There was, however, nothing to hide in the letter I
wrote to him. The main point I wanted him to make was that the value of the aliens
registration functions performed by the Department of Internal Affairs had been ques-
tioned. I had, in fact, a recommendation that these functions be discontinued as soon as
practicable. This recommendation is at present before a Cabinet committee, which I believe
will accept it. Rather than bringing in a Supplementary Order Paper without notice in the
Committee stage, I thought that, if the select committee looked at this question and agreed
with my attitude, it could have brought it back as a recommendation. As I pointed out in my
letter to the chairman of the committee, the law can continue in the interim to depend on the
Aliens Act 1948 without any difficulty, if we take out the third section. As I said earlier,
there was certainly no thought on my part of any discourtesy to the committee.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): First, I should draw to the attention of the House an
omission in the original report I delivered to the House some little, time ago now, and for this
I apologise. On that occasion, I failed to mention that the committee, although unanimously
of the opinion that every person who becomes a New Zealand citizen should take the oath of
allegiance, after discussion with the departmental officers assisting us concluded that there
was no practical way in which we could require this of these people-I think there are in
excess of 8000 a year. It was therefore indicated that clause 10 should be left in the Bill in its
original form. I simply report to the House the committee's unanimous view on the matter
and leave it for the Minister to see what can be done from an administrative angle to ensure
that, as far as possible, people who become New Zealand citizens do in fact take the oath. I
am a little concerned that the member for Auckland Central previously suggested there was
some element of disagreement on this point in the select committee. We were unanimous
that they should take the oath. We were also unanimous that we could not write it into the
Bill and that we should ask the Minister to see what he could do from an administrative point
of view.
The member for Auckland Central has moved that the Bill should be referred back to
the select committee for further consideration as to the status of aliens. I challenge that, and
suggest that the member for Auckland Central, in the course of his remarks to the House,
has not established how any further consideration of the status of aliens will assist the
committee on this matter. The Minister, both in the committee and in the House today,
indicated the possibility that all reference to aliens would be removed from the Bill, but none
the less we proceeded in the select committee on the basis that aliens were included in the
Bill, and dealt with that section accordingly. Can the member for Auckland Central state
what matters were raised in evidence or in discussion in the committee, before I received the
Minister's letter, to indicate some apprehension about the status of aliens? I believe there is
no good reason that the matter should be referred back to the select committee.
I was disturbed at the suggestion of the member for Auckland Central-to some extent
cleared up by the comments of the member for Henderson-that there had been some
discourtesy to the committee in the matter of the Minister's letter. I emphasise that the
relevant portions of the Minister's letter, which he read again to the House, were read to the
members of the select committee. In other words, it became a matter of record at the select
committee that the Minister possibly intended to remove that portion of the Act which
relates to aliens. I suggest that the committee was in absolutely no doubt about the Minister's
possible intention and of the possible course open to us in the select committee. Any
inference that there might have been discourtesy-and I realise that that suggestion was not
made by the member for Henderson, but that was certainly the word used by the member for
Auckland Central-or any suggestion of discourtesy are totally incorrect.
The House divided on the question, That the amendment be agreed to.


## p. 1749 (#205) ###########################################

29 July
1749
Citizens and Aliens Bill
AYES, 26
Arthur; Bailey; Barclay; Batchelor; Christie; Colman; Connelly; Courtney; Douglas;
Faulkner; Finlay; Freer; Hunt; Isbey; Kirk; Lange; Marshall; O'Brien; Prebble; Rata;
Rowling; Tirikatene-Sullivan; Tizard; Wall.
Tellers: Drayton; Young, T. J.
NOES, 37
Adams-Schneider; Austin, H. N.; Brill; Comber; Couch; Dewe; Downie; Elliott;
Elworthy; Falloon; Fenton; Friedlander; Gair; Gill; Harrison; Highet; Holland; Jones, D.
M. J.; Jones, N. P. H.; Lambert; Lapwood; Lithgow; MacIntyre; McLachlan; McLay;
Malcolm; Quigley; Schultz; Talbot; Templeton; Thomson; Walls; Waring; Wellington;
Wilkinson.
Tellers: Birch; Luxton.
Pairs
For: Blanchfield; Fraser; Reweti; Rogers; Wetere.
Against: Austin, W. R.; La Varis; Bolger; Young, W. L.; Talboys.
Majority against: 11
Amendment negatived, and motion agreed to.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon): When the House rose last night, I was explaining the
difficulties that are being experienced by the average family because of the taxation imposed
and the inflation caused by the Government. I used as the basis of my argument the single-
income families that have a net take-home pay of $100 a week. I should like now to refer to
solo parents, who include people on the domestic purposes benefit and widows and
widowers. They receive an even smaller amount of money to live on, and are in a worse
position than the families I mentioned last night. The Budget taxation rebate for children
under 10 may be some help to some of these. It seems that very little statistical research has
been done on the number of single-parent families with a child under 10 years. For that
reason, members may be interested to know that at a meeting of the Widows and Widowers
Association in Wellington on 27 July it was found that, of the 129 members with children, 8
had children under 5 and only 28 had children under 10. So, even in this very small group of
129, only 36 earning members would benefit from the tax rebate in the Budget.
It is even worse for people on the domestic purposes benefit. The decrease in the rate of
benefit for the first 6 months will do nothing to help society, and will harm the children. The
Budget repeats the conclusion of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee that a
generous initial benefit was often a factor in the break-up of a marriage. Neither the Budget
nor the review committee's findings tell us on what that decision was based. To my mind,
and to the minds of many people, the conclusion was based not on solid research but more
on the impressions and opinions of individual people. It was a subjective rather than an
objective conclusion.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but her time has
expired.
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): In the Budget debate last night, the member for
Henderson made some remarks about the National Government's record in west Auckland.
Let us compare it briefly to the Labour Government's record, and see what has been done in
west Auckland by the National Government in just under 20 months. First, during the
Labour Government's term in office the member for Henderson, as Minister of Justice,
could not even get a magistrate's court for Henderson. Under the National Government
there is now a magistrate's court in Henderson. The member for Henderson, as Minister of
Justice, could not use even his portfolio to do for his own electorate what has been done by
the National Government, thanks to the present Minister of Justice.
The member for Henderson talked about transport in west Auckland. He should have
read the Budget. I am not surprised that his speech was so short. The member for North


## p. 1750 (#206) ###########################################

1750
29 July
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Shore kindly referred to it as a swan song, but I think it was more of a eulogy from a lame
duck. If the member had read the Budget he would have seen that it provided passenger
transport services and bus services for Auckland, including west Auckland. The sum of $50
million will be spent on passenger transport services in the four main centres; that includes
the Auckland Regional Authority's services in west Auckland. When the Government took
office it inherited a run-down, uneconomic railways system. It inherited the Labour
Government's policy, which had included cancelling the proposed orders for the railways in
1973. The Government has started a programme for the railways; stage 1 involves the
Wellington area and the Auckland-Papakura area and an expenditure of $44 million. I look
forward to stage 2, and I will be pressing that it includes the Waitakere area and the
Waitakere rail link. Why did the member for Henderson not notice that his own area was
being catered for in the Budget?
The biggest laugh on the Labour Party and its so-called members of Parliament for the
west Auckland area was the speech on health made by the member for New Lynn. He did
not ask the Minister of Health about the Waitakere Hospital, nor has he realised that stage 2
of the hospital, which is under way, will involve $27 million for building in the long term.
That was not done under the Labour Government. In west Auckland, other assistance is
being given for the Massey High School gymnasium, pensioner housing in Massey, tele-
phones for the area, and, as I have said, transport. In housing, assistance will be given to the
worldwide plan for the housing scheme in Te Atatu North.
The speech of the member for Henderson boiled down to one fact: the Labour Party
does not want me to stand for the Helensville seat. It knows I am keeping Labour members
under scrutiny. It knows that the National Government will have more seats in west
Auckland after the next election.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 1 p.m.


## p. 1751 (#207) ###########################################

2 August
1751
Oral Answers to Questions
TUESDAY, 2 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Motor Cycle Gangs and Overstayers
1. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Prime Minister: Will he provide
specific examples of the manner in which the Ministers concerned had "not shirked their
tasks" (New Zealand Herald of 25 July), as he claimed to the National Party conference, in
dealing with motor cycle gangs and overstayers?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): As to overstayers, the Minister of
Immigration as early as February 1976 said, "No Government can afford to let a situation
develop in which its immigration requirements are being disregarded." This was clearly the
position at the time of the change of Government, and it was necessary for the National
Government to deal with a situation that had been allowed to develop for some considerable
time, in which those who flouted the law were placed at an advantage over their fellows who
obeyed the law and returned home at the expiry of visitor permits. As to motor cycle gangs,
contrary to the practice of the Labour Government the National Government has given full
support to the police, and has amended the Criminal Justice Act, the Police Offences Act,
and the Arms Act, to enable the police to search gang members suspected of carrying
weapons, to enter gang houses in certain conditions, and the courts to confiscate motor
vehicles, a course of action that was promised by the Labour Party in the 1972 election but
never carried out. At the same time financial support has been provided for social workers
working with gangs, and other assistance has been given to assist in bringing them back into
the mainstream of society.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is the Prime Minister not on record as saying that the
overstayers' affair was an unholy mess; and in what way are the courts being given greater
powers to deal with motor cycles?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I have said something similar, and, indeed, it is correct. We
inherited that unholy mess from the Labour Government, which did nothing about over-
stayers or gangs, although it was a major plank in the policy of the Labour Party during the
1972 election campaign. The change of law for motor vehicles has been used by the courts
this year to confiscate the vehicles of gangs.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Railways-Auckland-Waitakere Line
2. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Railways: In view of his
reported statement regarding the condition of the Railways' suburban passenger service,
when he said, "Stage I of the programme has an assessed cost of $44 million which will be
spread over 4 years. This will cover the replacement of carriages on the Wellington
commuter lines and on the Auckland-Papakura line. Decisions have yet to be made about
the future of the Auckland-Waitakere line", can he advise when a decision will be made on
the future of the Auckland-Waitakere line and why a delay is being experienced at present?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways): No, I cannot predict when a
decision will be made. The future of passenger services by road or rail is the subject of
continuing discussion between a number of Government departments and the Auckland
Regional Authority to ensure that the most appropriate mode is developed to suit the needs
of the area.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Does the Minister have any information from the Auckland
Regional Authority report on the transport service in west Auckland, and does that report
make any reference to the possible use of railways by people living in that area?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Talks between the ARA and the Railways are continuing
about the report on this area.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: As the main burden of that regional authority report was that the
Waitakere-Auckland railway is not patronised because it is not patronised, is that not


## p. 1752 (#208) ###########################################

1752
2 August
Oral Answers to Questions
due to the run-down quality of the stock?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: This is the very heart of the discussions taking place. I can
assure the honourable gentleman that there is no immediate plan to withdraw the present
rail services.
Mr Latter: Is the Minister aware that a statement in the Auckland Star of 13 May about
the report mentioned that the railways could cope with about 15 percent of the total
transport needs of the area; and if the railways system was run down, would that not be due
to Labour's administration?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: There is no need for me to say again that the last
Administration left this problem. An assessment is now being made by the ARA and the
Railways about the appropriate mode of transport for the area. Naturally, announcements
made in the Budget will have an effect on the final decision.
Mr Hunt: As a result of these talks and meetings, will there be any improvement to the
Waitakere-Auckland, Auckland-Waitakere service, or any part thereof, in the next financial
year?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do not know how long ago it is since the honourable
member went to school. I cannot help it if he does not listen or does not want to accept what
I have said. The discussions are aimed at improving the service, which the Government
intends to do.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Can I take it that if there is to be any improvement in the
Auckland-Waitakere rail service it will not be for 4 years, or, alternatively, that the
Minister's reference to appropriate modes means that the areas named in the original
question are more likely to be served by buses?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: As I said before, discussions are taking place between the
ARA and the Railways, after which a recommendation about the best mode for the area
and one that will be patronised, will be made to the Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Teachers Marriage Allowance for Females
3. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Education: Is he aware that there is
still considerable discontent among married female teachers because of their inability to
claim the marriage allowance payment payable to male teachers?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I am aware that under the current
provisions many female teachers are ineligible for married salary. This issue is one of a
package of issues still under negotiation between the Combined State Service Organisations
and the State Services Co-ordinating Committee. I am unable to forecast the outcome of the
negotiations.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Estate and Gift Duty Receipts
4. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Depart-
ment: Could he advise the receipts from estate and gift duty separately, for the years ended
31 March 1974, 31 March 1975, 31 March 1976, and 31 March 1977, (a) in dollar terms, and
(b) as a percentage variation on the previous year?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department):
The amount of estate and gift duty received for the respective years was as follows: for estate
duty, for the March year 1974, $31 million, or a percentage increase of 16.1 percent; for the
March year 1975, $38.4 million, or an increase of 23.8 percent; for the March year 1976,
$50.5 million, or an increase of 31.5 percent; and for the March year 1977, $51.7 million, or
an increase of 2.8 percent. For gift duty, the figures are as follows: for the March year 1974,
$2.8 million, or a percentage increase of 51.3 percent; for the March year 1975, $2.75
million, or a decrease of 1.89 percent; for the March year 1976, $3.64 million, or an increase
of 32.47 percent; and for the March year 1977, $2.99 million, or a decrease of 17.58 percent.
Mr Bell: Can it be assumed that more property has been transferred because of the
greater exemptions provided in the 1976 Budget?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The 1976 Budget increased the basic exemption from $4,000
to $8,000, which would explain the relatively small intake of gift duty of just under $3
million, which was a small decrease from the previous year. There must have been a
considerable increase in transactions as a result of that change.


## p. 1753 (#209) ###########################################

2 August
1753
Oral Answers to Questions
Mr Falloon: What are the percentages relating to farming estate duty?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I regret that I do not have any breakdown of that
information.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Woollen Mills at Mosgiel and Ashburton
5. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Can he confirm that
the remarks of the managing director of Kaiapoi Textiles Ltd, in the Christchurch Press of 10
June, in which he is reported as saying that Mosgiel's decision to close the woollen mill and
the reduction in the mill's viability were partly attributable to the costs of fuel and transport
under this Government are correct, and can he also confirm that the difficulties being
experienced by the Ashburton woollen mill, now employing more than 300 people, are also
due to the doubling of transport charges under this Government?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I have seen the
newspaper report, and have noted the remarks attributed to the managing director of
Mosgiel Ltd. They certainly do not suggest that fuel and transport cost increases contributed
to the company's decision to phase out operations at the Kaiapoi mill. I can find no
justification for the conclusions drawn by the honourable member. The age of the boilers
and the relatively small scale of present operations may have made fuel costs more
burdensome at Kaiapoi than at the company's other mills. Transport costs borne by the
Kaiapoi mill undoubtedly reflect the distance of that plant both from the Dunedin mills and
the major markets. Mosgiel Ltd had actually stated that even a direct freight subsidy would
not significantly assist Kaiapoi. Lane, Walker, Rudkin Ltd, the owner of the Ashburton mill,
has, to my knowledge, not cited transport costs as a factor in its decision to withdraw from
woollen milling. In fact, the Ashburton mill made a good profit in its most recent trading
year.
Mr Kirk: How helpful was it to the industry to double its transport charges?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: It is quite evident from the press statement made by
the managing director, a copy of which I have here, that that factor was not a major one in
the firm's decision to go ahead with phasing out the mill. As the honourable member knows,
that trend started as far back as 1972, when the staff was gradually reduced during Labour's 3
years in office.
Mr Lambert: Could the Minister confirm that some increases in transport charges are
largely attributable to the previous Administration artificially holding down those costs?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: Unequivocally, yes.
Hon. W. W. Freer: Have the departmental officers who went to Kaiapoi and Ashburton
to investigate the proposed closures of those undertakings presented their report to the
Minister; and, if so, is he or the Government in a position to take any positive action to
ensure that the mills do not close?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I have received reports on approximately a weekly
basis of the discussions held by the officers of my department with the officials and
management of both mills. I have also had at least weekly discussions-perhaps more often
that that—with the members of Parliament for Rangiora and South Canterbury, who have
kept closely in touch with me on these matters.
Mr Talbot: In relation to the reply the Minister gave to the question about transport
costs from the member for Sydenham, would it be more correct to say that the main reason
for the planned withdrawal of Lane, Walker, Rudkin from the Ashburton mill is a desire by
that firm to rationalise its production?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: Yes, and that is to some extent at the back of the
decision by Mosgiel in respect of Kaiapoi.
Hon. W. W. Freer: I ask the Minister to go back to my earlier supplementary question.
Can he or the Government take any action which is likely to ensure that either or both of
those mills do not have to close?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I have made it clear in press statements and in
answering questions in the House that the Government is taking every initiative it possibly
can. We have several proposals before us in respect of both mills. Indeed, the member for
Rangiora has placed before my department, and before me, several alternatives if the mill
does close. He has interested other people in using the facility, to provide avenues for the
people now in employment to be re-employed in that building. One proposition would
include possibly five different companies operating in the very large mill area of 225 000 sq


## p. 1754 (#210) ###########################################

1754
2 August
Oral Answers to Questions
ft. These suggestions are all being collated by my department, and I am not in a position to
give any further information at this stage.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Irrigation Schemes
6. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Works and Development: How
many major irrigation schemes are in existence in New Zealand, how many schemes have
been completed since the election of the present Government, and how many schemes have
been planned and remain in the pipeline awaiting approval?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): There are 24 major
irrigation schemes completed and in operation over an area of 103 740 hectares, and these
are all in Otago and Canterbury. They were established from the 1930s through to the late
1960s. With the approval by the present Government of the large Waiau Plains and
Maniototo irrigation projects, there will be 10 new irrigation schemes under construction this
year, and these have a total estimated cost of $27.7 million. They will irrigate a further 59 790
hectares. Maniototo and Waiau Plains represent 45 percent of this total area. Although not
yet completed, many of the schemes under construction are supplying water to some of their
area. A further 11 irrigation scheme proposals covering an area of 18 760 hectares are at
various stages of the design and approval process. A further 21 potential irrigation schemes
are at early stages of investigation.
Mr Cooper: Can the Minister confirm that the 11 schemes being planned and the 21
under investigation are in the Otago and Canterbury areas?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that half the 11 irrigation scheme proposals are in
the Otago and Canterbury areas, and that the bulk of the 21 potential irrigation schemes are
in the Otago and Canterbury areas.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that 8 of the 11 schemes that the Minister states
are under way or commencing this year were approved or approved in principle by the
outgoing Labour Government, and that the remainder were subject to feasibility studies
under the Labour Government?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: The fact is that the schemes I have mentioned are under action by
this Government. We know that the Labour Government had many pipe dreams, but we are
establishing those schemes and they are getting under way this year.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Is the Rakaia scheme one of those that the Minister considers is
urgently necessary and is proceeding rapidly?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: The Rakaia scheme is one of several which are being looked at at
present.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee Report
7. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In view of the
importance of the findings of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee, would he
be prepared to move that the report be referred to a select committee?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): No. Interested organisations and
individuals had the opportunity of making submissions to the Domestic Purposes Benefit
Review Committee during the course of its inquiry.
Mrs Batchelor: As chapter 5.3 of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee's
report states that guidelines exist for those district officers with the delegated authority to
determine whether or not a de facto relationship exists, and as there is confusion in the
public mind about what guidelines exist and when or how the officers' discretionary powers
are exercised, would the Minister not agree that those questions could best be answered in a
satisfactory way by referring the report to a select committee?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The only confusion in the public mind is that which has been
deliberately created by Labour Opposition members.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Standing Order 81 states that the
Minister should give his reply, which should be concise, confined to the subject-matter of the
question asked, and should not contain any argument or controversial matter. I suggest that
the Minister's reply does not conform with the Standing Order.
Hon. David Thomson: The gist of what the Minister was giving was not argument, it was
fact. It was not controversial unless, of course, the Opposition wants to argue fact, when it


## p. 1755 (#211) ###########################################

2 August
1755
Oral Answers to Questions
might become controversial. The Minister was just stating the facts as they are known.
Mr SPEAKER: This is an awkward point to answer. The reply to the question certainly
was concise. As to containing argument, it is difficult to define argument. As to controversial
matter, I do not want to enter into the question whether the confusion that exists was a mere
accident, or whether it has been encouraged. Rather than put myself into the argument I will
assume that the confusion that has been created has been created by accident, and suggest
that the Minister refrain from making that point.
Mr Downie: How many groups have already given detailed submissions to the Domestic
Purposes Benefit Review Committee?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: When the committee sat it advertised through the main
newspapers in the four main centres that it was sitting, and invited submissions from groups
of people, organisations, or individuals. The committee's sitting time was extended to enable
more people to make submissions. In all, about 46 recognised organisations involved in
welfare made written submissions, and about 100 individuals made submissions to the
committee.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that many statements and several recommenda-
tions of the committee have been challenged; and, if so, would it not be in the public interest
for the report to be referred to a select committee so that they could be examined?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I do not agree that some of the statements have been challenged,
although perhaps some are open to debate. One such statement relates to statistics, and I
think the one to which the honourable member is referring was raised by a gentleman from
the Waikato who said that as only 2000 decrees absolute were issued a year therefore there
were only 2000 broken homes. In fact, last year more than 19 000 women applied for the
domestic purposes benefit because of broken homes. I have to look at the practicalities of
the situation, not at what some researchers think may have happened.
Mr Bell: Have the committee's recommendations been implemented; and, if not, when
is it likely that they will be?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, the recommendations have not yet been implemented. The
reason is that up to 120 additional staff are being engaged and transfers made so that the
recommendations can be implemented as a whole, and not piecemeal. We are working in
with the Marriage Guidance Council, and at the moment it appears that the recommenda-
tions as a whole will be implemented in 4 to 6 weeks.
Mr SPEAKER: Perhaps I should mention that we have dealt with only one-third of the
questions in two-thirds of the time allowed, and it may assist if members refrained from
asking so many supplementary questions.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Foreign Fishing Vessel Entry Tax
8. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Customs: On how many
occasions since its inception has the foreign fishing vessel tax been imposed?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): The foreign fishing vessel entry tax was
introduced on 1 September 1976. During the period 1 September 1976 to 30 June 1977 there
were 656 foreign fishing vessel arrivals in New Zealand ports, 41 of which were exempted
from the tax because the arrivals were due solely to reasons of emergency. Thus, the tax has
been collected on 615 occasions.
Mr Courtney: Does the figure given by the Minister indicate that there has been a drop
in the number of foreign fishing vessels visiting New Zealand ports since the introduction of
the tax?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I regret I cannot give the member figures for earlier periods,
because no aggregate nation-wide figures were kept by the Customs Department before the
tax was imposed. We could get a comparison only by checking through individual arrival
records at each separate port, but from now on, of course, a close watch will be kept on the
position so that we are able to assess the trend.
Mr Allen: Can the Minister tell us the countries of origin of the foreign fishing vessels
visiting New Zealand during the period for which records have been kept?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Of the 656 arrivals, 598 were from Japan, 13 from Taiwan, 25
from Russia, 8 from the United States, and 12 from other countries.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1756 (#212) ###########################################

1756
2 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Car Pooling Schemes
9. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Finance: Will the support
of $70,000 to be made available for a car pooling scheme to operate across the Auckland
Harbour Bridge also be available for similar schemes developed by other local bodies
elsewhere?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The question of financial support for
car pooling schemes must be seen in the context of the budgeted level of Government
assistance for urban transport. It is anticipated that in the future the urban transport
authorities that are to be set up will initiate and co-ordinate car pooling schemes as part of
their overall responsibility for urban transport. Government assistance for the urban
transport authority is to be channelled through the Urban Transport Council, and will be
disbursed on the basis of approved comprehensive transport plans. Centres without urban
transport authorities will be eligible for project aid from the Urban Transport Council. Until
the new arrangements for urban transport have been established, the approach adopted by
the Government towards schemes developed by other local bodies will depend on the
progress of the North Shore to Auckland scheme and on the merit of the individual
proposals put forward.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: As the Auckland Regional Authority seems likely to become the
Urban Transport Council for the Auckland area—
Mr Birch: The urban transport authority.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I stand corrected. As the Auckland Regional Authority appears
likely to become the urban transport authority for the Auckland area and, on the available
evidence, seems to have had nothing at all to do with the proposed car pool scheme across
the harbour bridge, why is it that the North Shore has been singled out for this preference
above all other areas?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Principally, I think, because it is the one that has been put
forward. I know of no others at the moment.
Mr McLay: Does the fact that the Auckland Harbour Bridge Act says that the bridge is
the major practical road link between the North Shore and the Auckland isthmus mean that
the Auckland Harbour Bridge particularly lends itself to a pilot car pooling scheme, in the
course of which the value of car pooling as a conservation measure can easily be evaluated?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I should think that if that question was put into a simple
proposition, the answer would be yes.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I take up the Prime Minister's simpler proposition that a car pool
scheme between the North Shore and Auckland has been put forward, and ask whether that
is as far as it goes, when an estimate or guess was made that the cost of such a scheme from
the North Shore would be about half the figure allocated to it in the Budget?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: The honourable member can take it that the North Shore
people have put forward a proposal, and that the people in his area have not done so.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Pentachlorophenyl Poisoning
10. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he seen the
illustrated article in the July 1977 issue of Contractor indicating that a chemical applicator's
employee who contracted pentachlorophenyl poisoning in the line of duty was not entitled to
accident compensation, and will he take action to rectify the situation?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): Yes, I have seen the article. The position is
different from what is implied in the article. The fact is that a claim was lodged on 22 June
1977 alleging that the poisoning had first been sustained on 21 March 1977. It was the first
case of its kind received by the commission and required detailed medical investigation.
Following that the commission accepted the claim on 18 July 1977. Compensation payments
were then commenced, backdated to the time of infection. It is to be regretted that there has
been no later publicity to correct the implications made in the article of a July publication. I
must point out that the Accident Compensation Commission effectively handled a
precedent-setting case in less than 1 month.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is that the case shown on television one day last week; and can we
take it that the matter has now been settled to the satisfaction of the person injured?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I have no knowledge of the programme shown on television last
week. If the person concerned was the man referred to in the article in Contractor, I cannot
say that the case has been settled to his satisfaction, but if it is the same case I expect that it


## p. 1757 (#213) ###########################################

2 August
1757
Oral Answers to Questions
has been.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Miller's Ltd, Christchurch-Sackings
11. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Has he seen the
report in the Christchurch Star of 29 June 1977 in which Miller's Ltd blamed the mass
sackings of clothing workers in its Christchurch factory on clothing export quotas negotiated
with the Australians by this Government; and, if so, can he clarify what he meant by the
claim that Miller's had nobody to blame but itself for having to sack 100 workers?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I have seen the
report of Miller's Ltd in the Christchurch Star of 29 June 1977, and I have also seen the report
of 29 June, in which I was misquoted in the way the honourable member has suggested. I put
out a press statement at that time to make my position clear. The NAFTA arrangement on
apparel has assured New Zealand manufacturers of the opportunity to send at least 4 000 000
garments to the Australian market this quota year. It has minimised the disruptive effect of
the restrictions Australia found itself obliged to impose. Obviously the ceiling that was set on
New Zealand exports will, however, have affected different companies in different ways,
depending on how they had geared up in the expectation of further expansion in their sales
to Australia.
Hon. W. W. Freer: How can the Minister reconcile his statement to the garment
manufacturers at their conference in Queenstown that they should go ahead and expand
their sales to Australia with his press statement to the effect that a number of companies
brought this problem upon themselves?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The statement was made late last year, before the
impetus developed by the New Zealand industry was known to the Government-or to
anyone for that matter, because many factories are involved. At Queenstown, I said I was
seeking to encourage manufacturers to export to Australia and elsewhere, but, at the same
time, I made it quite clear that, as the Australians were moving towards some restriction on
apparel exports, the New Zealand industry should be warned and take that fact on board in
its consideration of further development. At the conference it became clear that the rate at
which New Zealand had been exporting—that is, about $14 million worth a year—would be
increased quite spectacularly. At that, point I told the garment manufacturers that they
would have a problem if they went ahead at that rate.
Mr Downie: What would have been the alternative for the New Zealand clothing
manufacturers had the Government not negotiated with Australia for an export quota?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The Minister of Overseas Trade and I were
informed in September 1976, when we undertook initial negotiations during the period this
Government has been in office, that the Australians had questions about their access to our
market and about the acceleration of our exports to Australia. On my return to New
Zealand I informed the New Zealand industry of the tenor of the discussions. It became
obvious that, if we accepted the Australian recommendation of making the cut-off point the
March or even the June 1976 year, we would have a much smaller quantity of exports to
Australia rather than the 4 000 000 garments that have been established.
Mr SPEAKER: Question 12.
Hon. W. W. Freer: A point of order, Mr Speaker. With due respect, we have had only
two supplementary questions on this important question, and I am wondering whether it is
not possible to address one or two more supplementary questions to the Minister.
Mr SPEAKER: In the ordinary course, I would not mind, but the relative Standing
Order says, "At the discretion of Mr Speaker supplementary questions to elucidate an
answer may be asked by any member." The honourable member has already asked one. It
was not seeking elucidation, but was generally germane to the particular subject. We have
already used seven-eighths of our time with just over half the questions asked, and the
proper procedure for me is to try to nudge the House on a little. That is my sole motive.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Railways-Prosecutions for Theft
12. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Railways: Were any
prosecutions for theft commenced by the Railways Department in the period 1 April 1976 to


## p. 1758 (#214) ###########################################

1758
2 August
Oral Answers to Questions
31 March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Railways.
The Railways Department does not institute proceedings for prosecution for theft. Where
cases of theft are suspected the police are called in and are given the necessary information
by the department. The police decide, having regard to their own inquiries, whether to
prosecute or not.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Meat-Freezing Industry-Hygiene Expenditure Assistance
13. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Agriculture:
Will the recently announced assistance to the meat-freezing industry for approved hygiene
expenditure include assistance to either fully or partially foreign-owned freezing companies?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Agricul-
ture. His answer is yes.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Can I take it then that the item appearing in the Dominion of 23
June, to the effect that the Minister of Agriculture had informed Federated Farmers that the
Government had told overseas-owned meat companies that they could not borrow money in
New Zealand to upgrade their freezing works, is completely inaccurate?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I have here a copy of the press statement over the signature of the
Minister of Agriculture relating to this, and there is no suggestion that grants should be made
available only to locally owned companies.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Post Office Home Ownership Accounts
14. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Housing: How many home
ownership accounts were in operation throughout New Zealand at the end of the 1977
financial year, and, of these, how many new accounts have been opened at the Post Office
since 1 January 1977?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): At the end of the 1977 financial year,
14 002 home ownership savings accounts were in operation throughout New Zealand, of
which 7532 were with the Post Office; 12 652 were ordinary accounts, and 1350 were special
accounts. In the period 1 January 1977 to 31 March 1977, 835 Post Office home ownership
savings accounts were opened; 305 were ordinary accounts, and 530 were special accounts.
More up-to-date figures are not yet available from the Post Office.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Penalties for Lawbreakers
15. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Justice: Is there any
substance to the claim made by the Minister of Police in a recent speech to the Wellington
Women's Club that ex-prisoners reoffend in order to return to prison to take an “annual
holiday", and, if so, has the Government any plans to respond to the Minister's call for more
severe penalties to be imposed on people who break the law?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): It is probably true that a few "old lags"
have become so institutionalised that prison has become home to them. I am not convinced
that this state of mind is widespread or that increased penalties is the answer to it. The
experience of prison administrators is that most inmates are only too happy to be released.
The more general question of the adequacy of maximum penalties is being studied.
Mr Prebble: Does the Department of Justice still carry out the instruction issued by the
former Minister of Justice to magistrates that they do not sentence people to short terms of
imprisonment; and, that being the case, surely no one would want an "annual holiday" of 6
months or more in prison?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: That question would have to be put down with notice as I am
not aware of the instruction issued by the former Minister of Justice.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1759 (#215) ###########################################

2 August
1759
Drugs-Illegal Importation
DRUGS ILLEGAL IMPORTATION
Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga): I am directed by the Social Services Committee to present
the report of the committee on the petition of Canon I. A. Clarke and 258 others, praying for
a full and public inquiry into the financing and importation of illicit drugs. The committee
heard evidence from Mr Paul Phillips, acting for the petitioners, and from Superintendent
Churches of the Police Department, on two occasions. By reason of the nature of the
evidence tendered, Mr Phillips was placed on oath. Evidence from the petitioners was
submitted in written, oral, and taped form. Many of the tapes had already been supplied to
the Police, and the committee is of the opinion that the House should require the petitioners
to supply the balance to the Police in order to provide a complete series of information.
The committee is not persuaded that a public inquiry into the importation and financing
of illicit drugs would be an effective vehicle for combating a problem of increasing
dimension, nor does it believe that an inquiry, at this stage, and bearing in mind the recent
commencement date of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975, would achieve anything beyond that
attainable by current enforcement measures-if only because information which might be
provided could, in all likelihood, fall short of the standards required to secure a conviction.
On the other hand, an inquiry would put on guard those who deal in illicit drugs. In fact,
such an inquiry may well be counter-productive if law enforcement agencies were
constrained to divulge their methods of operation. Moreover, the committee is well aware of
the danger of suggesting that a situation be created wherein it would be possible, under the
cloak of immunity from legal action, to accuse a person of illegal dealing in drugs without a
shred of sustainable evidence. The law makes ample provision for the citizen to pass on
information about criminal activity. The committee does not intend to recommend another
avenue of a purely transient nature.
While in no way denigrating the worth of the petitioners' evidence, the committee
cannot escape the impression that it simply disclosed, albeit in a dramatic form, situations of
a type well known to the Police. It did not lend weight to the actual prayer of the petition-it
illustrated the known problem. However, the committee considers that there are certain
matters upon which the House should recommend to the Government that action be taken.
First, any difficulty or doubt experienced by a public servant arising from the Public Service
Regulations 1964 in communicating information to the Police about international or domes-
tic dealing in drugs should be removed. Evidence was tendered which suggested that public
servants have some difficulty in reconciling an interpretation of regulation 42(2) and (3) of
the 1964 regulations with their inclination to supply information to the Police. The position
of officers and employees of the Inland Revenue Department is a separate matter and the
committee makes no recommendation in that regard. Second, the committee submits that
the House recommend to the Government that it examine ways and means of increasing
manpower and resources within those departments charged with the administration or the
enforcement of the provisions of the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975, so as to enable those
departments to perform their functions and duties on a wider basis.
The committee recommends that the House order that all evidence, but not including
tapes already surrendered or about to be surrendered to the Police, be held by the Clerk of
the House and that no person be granted access to that evidence without express authorisa-
tion from the Speaker. The committee also recommends that its report be adopted and
agreed to. I move, That this report be adopted and agreed to, and that it be referred to the
Government for serious consideration.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I raise the matter
of the procedure adopted by the chairman of the committee. As you know, the effect of his
last few words is to present the House with a non-debatable motion. In effect, the committee
has recommended that some portion of the petition be referred to the Government for
consideration, which permits only a short thank-you speech by the member who presented
the petition. However, before those words were spoken the chairman made quite a lengthy
speech containing material that some members might want to debate. This puts everybody in
an awkward position in that the procedure being followed-after a most interesting oration
by the chairman-deprives other members of the opportunity they ought to have to
comment, if they wish to, on what has been said. We should not be stifling debate by a non-
debatable motion. I wonder if you could consider the propriety of a procedure of this nature.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I gathered that the member was reporting
to the House a resolution of his committee, on which, doubtless, members on both sides
were represented. There is no doubt whatever that we have given ourselves Standing Orders
with a certain purpose in mind. I do not know whether the committee's resolution was
unanimous or not, but even that is immaterial. The motion is in front of the House, and our


## p. 1760 (#216) ###########################################

1760
2 August
Drugs-Illegal Importation
Standing Orders are so framed that we do not debate these matters unnecessarily. I am sure
that a committee which heard a lot of evidence in secret-evidence which is completely
confidential-is capable of making up its mind. The committee gave us a somewhat unusual
resolution; nevertheless it is a proper one in accordance with our Standing Orders. The
Standing Orders should apply in the normal way and little would be gained by a further
debate in the House. The committee has had a good look at this matter. Obviously there is
knowledge in the possession of members of the committee that, because of the manner in
which it was given, cannot be revealed in a debate in the House, and therefore the House
would be at a disadvantage. The suggestion has been made that the law enforcement agency
should get the material and act accordingly. Little purpose would be served by departing
from our Standing Orders.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): I refer you to Standing Order 413(2). If I heard the member
presenting the report correctly-and if I did not I hope he corrects me-he moved that the
report be referred to the Government for “serious consideration”. There is no such motion.
A report can be referred to the Government for favourable consideration, for most
favourable consideration, or with no recommendation.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Read on: "or any other purpose".
Mr HUNT: If we use the words "or any other purpose", we must consider what comes
after the colon. Paragraph (b) provides that, "If there is a rider to the report, the member
expressing thanks may also discuss the effect and implications of the rider and, in that case,
his speech may extend to but not exceed 5 minutes." I presume that the member who
presented the petition would be able to avail himself of the 5 minutes allowed under that
provision. A second point is that this raises a very serious constitutional issue. I doubt very
much whether we have ever had a similar situation-one in which a select committee has
heard something in secret—and I presume that approval to hear that evidence in secret was
obtained from a motion directing the committee to do so.
I should like you to rule on this point, Mr Speaker, because although occasions might
arise when evidence that cannot be revealed to the House is presented to a committee, I
believe this is an area where members of Parliament should tread very carefully indeed,
otherwise Parliament might be open to the suggestion that there is no longer the openness
we have always had in our parliamentary system. That is not a desirable precedent to set.
The point raised by my colleague the member for Henderson can best be served—because
there is a lacuna in our Standing Orders; and I think the Prime Minister was quite right in
that-if you rule in his favour. Otherwise the debate will be restricted to simply allowing the
chairman of the committee to speak and the member presenting the petition to have his 5
minutes. If any other member felt that he wanted to speak to this motion I hope he would get
the leave of the House. I have no doubt about the calibre of the seven members who sat on
the committee. It was a bipartisan committee with four Government members and three
from the Opposition, but nevertheless there are 80 other members of Parliament who have
rights, just as the 7 members who served on the committee have rights.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The Opposition is trying to complicate what is
really a simple matter. The report was agreed to by the seven members on the committee,
and is in accordance with the Standing Orders, which provide that there shall be no debate in
the circumstances. The matter should end there. The member for Henderson probably
thought that, in reporting back, the chairman was speaking to the report, but he was not. He
was reading the report which had been agreed to after considerable care and attention. The
report will be available for all members to read at their leisure if they did not quite take it in
as it was being read. There is no provision for debate.
Mr SPEAKER: As indicated by the member for Henderson the manner of dealing with
the report means that there is no provision for a debate. On the other hand, it should be
noted, as has also been indicated, that the chairman of the committee presented and read the
report itself. He did not speak to the report, so any feeling that a speech in support of a
motion was itself the beginning of a debate which would therefore proceed would be, I think,
in error. The report was read and a motion that it be agreed to and be referred to the
Government for "serious consideration" was moved. There the matter seems to end, apart
from the entitlement of the member originally presenting the petition to thank the members
of the committee for the work they have done.
As to the suggestion that the words "serious consideration" are out of order, I thought
that myself at first hearing, but on looking at Standing Order 413(2) I find it reads: "Where a
select committee reports upon a petition, recommending that its report be referred to the
Government for inquiry, consideration, favourable consideration, most favourable consider-


## p. 1761 (#217) ###########################################

2 August
1761
Drugs-Illegal Importation
ation, or any other purpose. . ." It seems that "for serious consideration" is reasonably
within the meaning of the words "or any other purpose”.
As to the appropriateness or otherwise of committees hearing evidence in secret, I
should have desired to look at that matter and comment at a later time, but my immediate
feeling is that there can well be occasions when witnesses will make statements if they are
assured that they will not be reported to the press, or spread around the country. If the
matter is wide open, particularly when dealing with drugs, which can have very dangerous
consequences for associated persons, probably the evidence would not come forward. I will
have a look at that aspect of the matter later.
Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga): A point of order, Mr Speaker. Would it be in order for the
member who originally presented the petition to make comments at a later time? Unfortu-
nately, he is not available at the moment.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Oh, come on!
Mr SPEAKER: I do not need the assistance of a loud voice saying "Oh, come on". It is
my duty, not always pleasant, to make decisions, and I do not in any way appreciate these
loud asides, which are very inappropriate and far from courteous. No, it would not be in
order for the member who presented the petition to express his thanks or make other
comments at a later date. However, by requesting the leave of the House he might then
make comment. In the absence of the special leave of the House it would not be in order for
him to do so. The matter is now disposed of, and the member cannot make comments as of
right.
Motion agreed to.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): The 1977 Budget looks to the future in its dramatic
emphasis on priority for New Zealand's energy needs and transport requirements; yet it still
emphasises the present in its protection of family life. That protection is evident in the
introduction of rebates for families with children under the age of 10, and the extension of
the rebate for families with children under the age of 5 which was introduced in last year's
Budget. This year's Budget balances the future and the present, and does it well. Today's
youngsters will be much better off than their parents could have envisaged in November
1975. The Government made no promises about family rebates at that election, but its
record in this area is unequalled. The Opposition has offered carping criticism at the
introduction of the rebates, but its period of administration was noted only for the revision of
the tax scales with no comparable benefit for family life.
Rebates of $9 a week for people earning less than $150 a week and who have children
under the age of 5, and $4 a week for single-income families with children under the age of
10, are provided for. No earnings limit for rebate qualification by families with children
between the ages of 5 and 9 has been set. The limit for families with children under the age of
5 is $240 a week, the rebate being reduced when earnings exceed $150 a week. The third tax
reduction in the Budget is the increase in the wife's rebate from $375 to $520 per annum.
People with children under the age of 5 should contact their pay clerks to ensure that these
benefits are passed on to them from 1 October this year. I imagine that very few Opposition
members have told their constituents that a National Government is giving them a rebate of
$9 a week if they have children under 5 years of age and an income of less than $150 a week.
Housing Corporation interest rates have been reduced to 6.5 percent for borrowers with
incomes of less than $160 a week, and 5 percent for borrowers with incomes of less than $120
a week. The income limits are increased by $5 a week for each child. What would a Labour
Government do about taxes? The House has certainly heard nothing in the speeches
delivered by the Opposition. I have a copy of a Labour Party pamphlet that states: "Labour
believes that there has to be a radical rethinking of the taxation system." The pamphlet
continues: "Labour is looking at how taxation affects the single-income family as opposed to
those where a wife is earning." In other words, a Labour Government would combine both
incomes, and tax would be charged on the wife's earnings at the higher rate. The pamphlet
also states that Labour is looking at ways in which the burden can be shifted more evenly on
to those who own substantial property, and make substantial capital gains.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: That's ridiculous.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: I think the member for Roskill should complain about that,
because the Labour Party is obviously considering introducing a wealth tax, and taxing


## p. 1762 (#218) ###########################################

1762
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
boats-such as the one owned by the member for Roskill. If a person owns a farm of more
than a certain value, say $100,000, he will pay extra tax on that farm. The Labour Party
obviously intends to introduce a wealth tax, and I am sure that if I were a public servant
retiring at 60 years of age, and receiving both Government superannuation and national
superannuation, I would be considered to be wealthy and would be liable to pay that wealth
tax. I should like someone from the Opposition to deny that, because so far we have heard
nothing. Certainly, the Leader of the Opposition had nothing to offer-all he did was put
four of his colleagues to sleep.
The Budget is a financial document, and its assistance to today's family is largely
financial, but the Government has also shown its concern for today's social and moral
standards. The report of the domestic purposes benefit committee underlines the growing
problem of the breakdown of many family units, and makes it clear that the easy availability
of the domestic purposes benefit has led to this. The Government is acting to improve this
position, and prevent the trend continuing. Probably the biggest problem faced by today's
family is a deteriorating social and moral code, and the films seen recently by some members
are symptomatic of today's greatest sickness. The Family Planning Association's support for
films that do little but promote sexual promiscuity by youngsters suggests to me that the
association would be better named the Association for Sexual Promiscuity. I am sorry for the
young girls who become pregnant, and I recognise a need for contraceptive advice—but I
waited in vain for a reference to the greatest contraceptive of all, the word "no". The films
had only one aim-the sale of contraceptives-and any suggestion that family life or
marriage had a place in today's society was totally lacking. The emphasis in the second film
on support for homosexual behaviour and abortion on demand also causes me great concern
about the association's principles. At the appropriate time I shall scrutinise the assistance
given to the association by the Government. I hope that all schools that show the films will
also have discussions with groups not as concerned with promoting promiscuity as the Family
Planning Association is. The films would be better shown to parents to assist their
understanding of today's youth.
I applaud schools trying to give sex education, but in my view it is the responsibility of
the parents, not the school. It is difficult to determine what lead the Government should
give, but it is beholden on some members of Parliament to express their strong views on
these matters. In my electorate the Government has endeavoured to assist the family by
voluntary community helpers, and the Waitemata City Council has also assisted by establish-
ing a community house at Massey, which gives the young family a meeting place. A drop-in
centre in Ranui and a social service centre in Glenfield have been established by local
churches and the community with a grant from the Government.
Mr McLay: That's very good.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: As the member for Birkenhead has said, that is very good. The
member for Birkenhead was largely responsible for the assistance given to the Glenfield
social services centre. These centres are examples of community self-help and city council
and Government assistance, but most of the assistance comes from the churches. I emphas-
ise the part played by the church in today's society, and I am concerned about some of the
off-beat church groups that have come into existence recently. I refer to the Moonist cult and
the Children of God, which on the surface appear to have Christian principles, but I am
suspicious about what their actual motives might be.
An Hon. Member: Brainwashing.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: One member has said they might be brainwashing groups. At first
glance one might get that impression, and I therefore recommend that any young person
with an interest in those groups should scrutinise them closely.
The member for Henderson made some remarks about Government assistance to the
west Auckland area. His speech merely indicates his total lack of knowledge of what is
happening in west Auckland. That is reflected by the fact that he had one of the greatest
swings against Labour at the last election. It is evident to all that the Labour member for
Henderson is retiring before he is pushed out and replaced by yet another National member
of Parliament. In the speeches of Opposition members I have detected a desire that I stand
for the Albany seat. The speech of the member for Henderson was the best example of that
desire so far-equalled only by some of the letters written in west Auckland newspapers.
The attitude of some Labour members might be to retreat from the fight, and an example of
that is the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who once was the member for Tamaki, then the
member for Pakuranga, before moving to even greener pastures in the Otahuhu electorate.
That is not my approach. I live in Hobsonville and the Helensville electorate, and I intend to


## p. 1763 (#219) ###########################################

2 August
1763
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
stand for the Helensville electorate. I am confident that after the next election I shall be
joined by other National members of Parliament in west Auckland. The member for
Henderson is living in a dream world of his own in his references to what the Government is
doing to assist the people in west Auckland. In the justice sector, the Government has
established a magistrate's court in Henderson. The member for Henderson was the former
Minister of Justice, and was unable to get a magistrate's court built in his own electorate.
That is a sorry reflection on his record.
The Government has just announced that stage II of the Waitakere Hospital can
proceed subject to the appropriate approvals at the various stages. Stage II is on its way as a
result of the good work done by the Minister of Health. The Government had to pick up a
defunct ante-natal clinic at the Waitakere Hospital and revive it in 1975. For all their talk
about health care and concern for the welfare of the people, the Labour members for west
· Auckland were unable to ensure the continuation of the ante-natal clinic at the Waitakere
Hospital.
Mr Hunt: What about stage II and the accident and emergency department?
Mr D. M. J. JONES: In a matter of a few days in December 1975 the Government made
funds available for the continuation of the clinic. The member for New Lynn has probably
not read his newspaper, and in case he has not already heard I repeat that the Government
has approved the commencement of stage II of the Waitakere Hospital, and if he knew
anything about health care, which he obviously does not, he would know that the Auckland
Hospital Board can include an accident and emergency department in stage II, which will
cost $27 million. I am making recommendations to the Minister of Health and the Auckland
Hospital Board about the establishment of a family health counselling centre in west
Auckland.
In education, the Waitemata electorate has seen the Massey High School gymnasium
built-promised by the last Labour Government, but never achieved. Many new primary
schools are being built in the electorate. The Labour Government's legacy was the disastrous
situation resulting from the proposed Massey intermediate school's not having been built,
with intolerable burdens being placed on existing schools. It is yet another of the problems
being resolved by the National Government. Plans are under way for kindergartens in
Sturgees Road, Henderson, and in the member for Henderson's electorate at Oratia.
Extensions are planned for the Hobsonville-Whenuapai kindergarten. The kindergartens are
still in the planning stages and tenders have not been called because, as far as I am aware, the
plans have not been finalised. The Government has announced another first—the establish-
ment of a mobile pre-school unit, which will make a great difference to many of the outlying
areas of west Auckland, particularly Massey and Ranui. Thanks should go to the YWCA
and the Anglican-Methodist Social Services Association for the great work being done to
start the mobile pre-school units.
In the Massey area the Government has made $350,000 available to finance pensioner
flats, which are almost ready for occupation. Not one pensioner flat was built in the west
Auckland portion of the Waitemata electorate during the term of the last Labour Govern-
ment.
Perhaps the most disastrous aspect of life in west Auckland under the Labour Govern-
ment was the total lack of planning for telephones. This was the greatest problem I inherited
as the incoming National member for Waitemata, formerly a Labour seat. It was obvious
that there was no planning for any immediate service for the residents in the Massey-Ranui
areas. The Government has acted promptly to provide temporary relief by a special
allocation of 1600 lines this year. That means that 1600 people will have telephones 2 years
earlier than they would have under the lack of planning by the Labour Government.
In the field of transport the National Government has done something for the people of
Auckland and west Auckland. In the 1977 Budget the Government has allocated $50 million
over a 5-year period for bus services in the four main centres. One of the biggest problems of
west Auckland residents is the difficult bus service. The reason the member for Henderson's
Budget speech was brief was that he had not read the Budget completely. If he had he would
have discovered the transport assistance for the people of west Auckland, serviced by the
Auckland Regional Authority, in keeping with the Government's election policy. I shall
make representations to the Minister of Transport for assistance for the Whenuapai bus
service, one of the last privately owned bus companies operating in west Auckland. Also in
the transport sphere is the future of our railways network. The Government is fully aware of
the problems with suburban passenger rolling stock. The rolling stock is in poor condition
and repairs are becoming increasingly uneconomic. A staged programme has been


## p. 1764 (#220) ###########################################

1764
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
announced in the Budget, involving expenditure of $44 million on stage I, which will cover
the Auckland-Papakura line and the Wellington commuter lines. In addition, the Govern-
ment and the Auckland Regional Authority are investigating proposals for the Waitakere
line, which will probably be incorporated in stage II of the programme, and I shall be
pushing the Minister of Works and Development for this. In the meantime, I am willing to
recognise that the Government is spending $100 million on our transport system-$100
million more than the Labour Government spent.
I agree with an Auckland newspaper editor who said that half a loaf is better than no
bread; Aucklanders who had despaired at the long years of neglect of suburban rail services
should be thankful that this Government has done something. The same newspaper editor
said that Aucklanders should seek an assurance from the Government that it intends to
extend its revitalising zeal to the Waitakere line as soon as possible. I express my thanks to
that newspaper editor for confirming the Government's revitalising zeal in the railways
sphere, and assure him that I shall ensure that the Government does everything possible to
extend that zeal to the Waitakere line. I shall continue to press the Minister in this respect.
One person I must take to task is Sir Dove-Myer Robinson, the Mayor of Auckland.
For many years he has rebuked the Minister of Finance, in his capacity as member for
Tamaki, for doing nothing for Auckland. On this occasion the Minister of Finance in one
area alone is spending tens of millions of dollars on Auckland's transport system. I was
dismayed that the Mayor of Auckland should sink to the low level he has sunk to of writing a
letter to the Auckland Star rebuking the Prime Minister for not spending more money on the
Auckland railway system. It would be well worth while for the Mayor of Auckland to
consider the Budget's overall transport proposals, together with its implications and advan-
tages for Auckland, rather than to indulge in local body politicking before the local body
elections. I am sure that in retrospect the Mayor of Auckland will regret having written that
unfortunate letter.
The west Auckland mayors have criticised the lack of specific reference in the Budget to
the Waitakere rail link. It is unfortunate that they did not read all the press statements issued
by the Minister and which show that express provision has been made for the future of the
Waitakere rail links. I would put the west Auckland mayors in the same category as Sir
Dove-Myer Robinson and remind residents of the area that the local body elections are
coming up in the very near future. The electors might bear in mind just how much or how
little was said by west Auckland mayors about the Waitakere rail link just before the 1975
general election. They might also like to bear in mind how little or how much was said by the
west Auckland mayors about the calamitous position of the ante-natal clinic at Waitakere
Hospital before the 1975 general election. The Labour Government had 3 years in which to
do something for our rail services. It did nothing. It produced more and more paper, and
more and more talk. It produced a green paper and a white paper; it produced many hours of
talk, but it did nothing constructive for the railways. In fact, in March 1973 it cancelled an
order tentatively lodged by the National Government before 1972. Although I am disap-
pointed that the Waitakere rail link is not included in the first stage of the programme, I am
very pleased that moves are afoot to improve our urban transport system, with resultant
good effects in Auckland. I am also pleased that further moves are afoot to assess fully the
capabilities of the Waitakere rail link. The Government is undertaking positive steps in that
area-it is spending money, it is doing things, it is not just sitting back and talking as the
Labour Government did.
Those are examples of what has been done in justice, education, health, transport, and
pensioner housing, and they indicate just how the National Government has gone about
getting things done in west Auckland. However, the real icing on the cake was the
announcement earlier this year of the worldwide competition to design homes in Te Atatu
North. As many members know, entries are being received from as far away as Canada for
this competition to design New Zealand's house of the future, and to design New Zealand's
housing subdivision of the future. This is all happening in an area that the member for
Henderson wishfully thinks is a strong Labour area. I am the first National member to
represent Te Atatu North for many a long year, and I look forward to the support of the
people of Te Atatu and west Auckland for the National Government, which has done a
tremendous amount for an area that, according to Labour members, does not favour a
National Government. I defy any member opposite to prove that Labour, in its 3-year term,
did as much as the National Government has done or has got under way in 18 months. The
effort of the National Government in the west Auckland area is one of the many reasons that
I shall be joined in 1978 by additional National members representing west Auckland. They


## p. 1765 (#221) ###########################################

2 August
1765
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
will represent the people better than the Labour Party, with its antagonistic and destructive
efforts. I have been lengthy in my references to what the Government has done for the west
Auckland area, because it has done so much.
I now wish to turn to the other aspect of the introduction to my speech, namely, energy,
and what the Government has done in the energy sphere through the Budget. As a young
member of Parliament, I am concerned as I look at the future prospects for energy in New
Zealand. It should be apparent to all that our cities have grown and sprawled because of the
availability of cheap petrol and the inexpensive nature of motors. The position is changing
already, and it will reach its final breaking point, in my view, by about 1985. In the
meantime, it is obvious that the New Zealander will not accept an immediate stop to urban
sprawl because, regrettably, the need to change our way of life is not readily accepted. I
should mention in passing that there has been a fairly effective stop to urban sprawl in west
Auckland. Members may recall that the Government promised in its election manifesto to
fence off our cities. Well, thanks to the policies of the Auckland Regional Authority in
refusing to allow further sewerage development in the west Auckland area, the Auckland
Regional Authority has sewered off west Auckland.
While the present position continues in Auckland, one can envisage the growth of
Manukau City and the south Auckland area at a rate of about 7000 people a year, Waitemata
City in west Auckland at the rate of about 5000 people a year, and Takapuna City in the
northern part of Auckland at the rate of about 4000 to 5000 people a year. This growth is
taking place on the periphery of Auckland at a distance of about 10 to 15 miles from Queen
Street, the one-time heart of Auckland City.
This growth must be viewed against our future supply of energy. The recent report by
the New Zealand Energy Resources and Development Committee indicates that in the long
term the availability of oil is probably the dominant factor in determining current and future
energy prices. The report states that there is little doubt that world oil production will peak
before the turn of the century, and possibly by 1990. That is only 13 years away. If we
imagine the position in 1985, when the world's resources of oil are starting to be depleted
and the countries with oil are selling to the highest bidder, and when we know that some of
the richest countries have the greatest need for oil, we realise that New Zealand will hardly
be in the race. Some members will have been to North America, where people are heavily
dependent upon oil for the comforts of life.
Mr Hunt: Too dependent.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: I agree with the member for New Lynn that they are too
dependent-wastefully dependent. Although North America has oil resources at present, by
1985 it will be experiencing difficulties. If we try to imagine New Zealand competing in this
area, we will realise that it will have difficulty being in the race at all. It is beholden upon us
all to conserve energy, to install insulation in our homes, to install solar water heaters, to
ensure that when that time comes at the end of the century we will be in a good position to
protect ourselves. We may think that coal will protect us in the future, but we have only
sufficient reserves of coal for 10 or 12 base-load coal-fired power stations each of 1000 MW
output—that is, each the size of Huntly—and each with a lifetime of 30 years. This highlights
the urgency of the energy problem, and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Energy
Resources should be congratulated for the emphasis placed in the Budget on the spending of
funds to ascertain our reserves with certainty. One of the likely sociological changes in the
future is a return to an extended family relationship, when we realise that we can no longer
live too far away from our relatives because we will never see them. We will start living in
smaller houses that are well insulated, and we will return to the extended family which will
be a much better way of life than the present nuclear family.
I commend the Minister of Finance for the introduction of this Budget, and its
emphases: the work done by the Minister of Transport in getting transport matters included
in it; the Minister of Energy Resources for his part in the Budget; and the Minister of Health
for the allocation incorporated in the estimates for Waitakere Hospital stage II develop-
ment. It is interesting to note that the member for New Lynn was totally unaware of this
allocation when he made his Budget speech the other night; he had not even bothered to ask
the Minister of Health whether any provision had been made for Waitakere Hospital stage II
development. This is an excellent Budget, and should be accepted by all members.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): It was interesting to hear the last speaker, who comes from
Auckland. He was able to talk at some length about what the Budget provides for Auckland,
but let me tell him, quite plain and plump, that other areas have been badly served by the
Budget. Let me also tell him that, while he speaks of what the Budget might bring forward


## p. 1766 (#222) ###########################################

1766
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
for west Auckland, that area has been neglected under the past policies of the Government,
which is now trying to make up for lost time. Under Labour's policy on hospitals and health,
west Auckland would have been much better provided for and would be at least 2 years
ahead of where it is now.
The member challenged me, as the following speaker, to argue against the point that in
18 months this Government had achieved more than any previous Government. In housing,
this Government has achieved less than any other Government in our history. In productiv-
ity, this Government has achieved little more than any other Government in New Zealand's
history, and certainly not as much as the Labour Government achieved in the 3 years
between 1972 and 1975. Social welfare, where there is an urgent need, has been seriously cut
back-and I think especially of the family benefit capitalisation. I read in this morning's
paper of the concern expressed by some art and cultural groups that are most dissatisfied
with the Government because of the serious cutbacks they have suffered. New Zealanders
are aware of the serious cutbacks in some activities that the Government was previously
providing for.
Although about $7.5 million will be provided this year for geothermal exploration, the
figure is only because of the Government's neglect of this area in past years. For example,
last year only $4 million was provided, which was far less than provided by the Labour
Government. So there is no evidence that the National Government has achieved more than
previous Governments.
It was interesting, but confusing, to listen to the member for Waitemata. The Govern-
ment has talked about the need to cut back, and we know how often we are told of Ministers'
inability to provide for vital needs when representations are made to them. Yet we hear this
member talking about how the Government is spending more and creating greater activity in
the community. Let the Government make up its mind where it is spending and what it is
spending. I am quite unconvinced, and I am sure that other New Zealanders with any
experience of this Government know that what the member said is not borne out by the
evidence. New Zealand awaits the economic miracle promised by the National Party.
Obviously, no economic miracle will be performed by the Minister of Finance. New Zealand
badly needs an economic policy that will bring forth the greatest productivity from its
citizens, and that will ensure the economic justice and social welfare of its people today, and
in years to come. The economic policy revealed in the 1977 Budget lacks the verve that New
Zealand needs, and is right out of touch with the growing social problems, and future
economic needs. Interestingly, the Budget has not one word to say about New Zealand's
defence.
Today, our economic life and future are being attacked on all sides by record
inflation engendered for the most part by the Government's domestic policies that places
the greatest burden on those people who are least able to bear it, mainly single-income
families where the total income is small. The Government's borrowing has risen to a level
never before reached. Record industrial strife has been brought about by the Government's
inattention to the problems I have already stated. The Government's unconcern about
people's rights on the labour market and the record emigration resulting from the abject
failure of the Government's policies to grapple with the real causes are blighting our way of
life. If any growth has been achieved in the last 12 months-to which the member for
Waitemata referred-it is growth to record levels of taxation, inflation, industrial strife, and
emigration. Those are the only records achieved by this Government.
It is an idle boast of the Government to claim, as it has on page 43 of the Budget, that:
"The balance of payments deficit has been substantially reduced and the Government's own
deficit has been more than cut in half." To reduce its balance of payments deficit, the
Government has borrowed overseas more heavily than any other Government in our
history. I take up the challenge that the Government's own deficit has been cut in a way in
which the people can be pleased, or can be delighted, and for which the people should praise
the Government. It is certain that the policy of the Labour Party and the Labour Govern-
ment kept New Zealand industry in full production, and filling markets with its goods. We
can praise the work of men such as Colin Moyle and Joe Walding, who are unmatched in any
way by any member of this Government in lifting our export income by at least $1 billion.
That lift in our income, which should have been a protector, has been dissipated in the past
12 months by the profligate policies of the Government. The funds have been dissipated on
imports, and the balance of payments deficit has been overcome merely by borrowing about
$400 million abroad-a record for New Zealand.
In the Budget, the Prime Minister speaks of New Zealand in the world economy, and I


## p. 1767 (#223) ###########################################

2 August
1767
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
quote from the Budget at the foot of page 2: "The Government has taken every opportunity
to make clear to our major trading partners the adverse effects which continuing protection-
ist measures, as well as some of their general economic policies, are having on New
Zealand's economic performance". Protectionist measures are certainly a matter of concern
to the Labour Party in Opposition, as obviously they are to the Government. I want to
examine the phrase "general economic policies". These are not just the "protectionist"
policies, but the general economic policies of this country and all our major trading partners.
On page 1, of the Budget, the Minister declares that "The industrial countries that
comprise the bulk of both our export markets and import sources have contrived to cut back
their overall deficit, but at the expense of full employment". That statement should be
noted. Further on we read: "Unless the action of the United States in allowing its current
account to move sharply into deficit is continued and followed by others, New Zealand's
efforts to adjust its economy towards exporting will encounter increasing difficulties". It is
interesting to note that the Minister of Finance considers that other countries should move
towards deficit borrowing. He then gives credence to and support for stable economic
growth for the policy of the International Monetary Fund, and its role in channelling surplus
funds from oil exporters and industrial countries to those deficit countries willing to adopt
the necessary economic measures. The Minister should be more consistent in his policies and
with the statement he is making about the need for deficit borrowing in countries other than
New Zealand.
We have record taxation under this Government. For the year ended 31 March 1976,
part of which was under the last Labour Government, the total tax receipts were $3,185
million, compared with the estimated $4,756 million to be collected this year. If people like
to work it out, that is an increase in tax of more than 50 percent. Although the Labour
Government provided nearly $300 million for stabilising the economy, that is no longer
evident in this Budget. Several hundred million dollars less have been provided for many
social needs. We have a heavy tax take. However, I am sure that after 1978, under the
Labour Government, we will see the reformation of the tax system already mentioned by the
Leader of the Opposition. Two years ago, under the Labour Government, tax receipts
amounted to $2,295 million, whereas today they are $3,570 million, or an increase of more
than 50 percent. As I have said, the greater part of the burden of taxation is falling on those
who can least afford to pay. The whole tax system needs restructuring to give incentives for
production, and will be given attention by the Labour Government in 1978. Although the
increase in income tax this year is at least $750 million, I note that the Budget makes some
provision for families with children under the age of 10 years.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: I'm glad the member noticed that.
Mr T. J. YOUNG: I also note that it will not leave a family with 4 children under the age
of 10 years any better off than it was 6 months ago. The Minister should give that
consideration. For every $1 the Government is giving to the people it is taking back $9. That
is the effect of the present Budget. No consideration has been given to families with children
at intermediate or secondary school, for which the costs of uniforms, school fees, and books
are very high. The Minister of Finance should have given this special attention, because
earlier this year the New Zealand Council on Social Services reported that studies of the life
cycle of the family indicate that the time of greatest stringency is during the teenage years
when the food, clothing, and general living expenses of children are at their peak. Despite
the great trumpeting of the so-called Cabinet committee on the family during the past 18
months, nothing worth while has been done.
During the quarter ended 30 June last, the rate of inflation was the highest it has ever
been. In three of the quarters since the National Government took office, the inflation rate
has exceeded the inflation rate of any quarter under the Labour Government. The country is
facing rampaging inflation. In the 1975 National Party manifesto—I think it was the King
James version, as the glossy one has now been disowned, and we do not know which one we
can take for gospel-the people were assured that priority would be given to attacking
inflation. However, all we have is record inflation. Recently I received a copy of a letter sent
to a constituent of mine-the company secretary of a prominent Wellington manufacturing
firm-from the present Minister of Energy Resources when he was Minister of Housing. My
constituent had written to the Minister expressing deep concern at the interest rates being
charged on money loaned to young people for housing. The reply he received from the then
Minister of Housing, who was also Deputy Minister of Finance, was that, as we were facing
inflation, lenders should be able to retrieve, by way of interest, something to allow for the
pace of that inflation.


## p. 1768 (#224) ###########################################

1768
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
People in need of housing are required to lend money, or to invest it in insurance
policies, in trustee bank accounts, or other institutions to which they generally turn for
housing mortgages. However, in doing so, they are receiving less on their investment than
those insurance companies or trustee banks are able to charge on mortages to them.
Inflation is being fed by the fires of escalating interest rates. It is of real concern that some
insurance companies are charging interest rates of 22 percent on second mortgages.
Housing, which is a vital social need, is suffering at the hands of the present Government.
When the Minister of Energy Resources was the Minister of Housing and the Deputy
Minister of Finance he had a dislike of low interest rates for housing.
The purpose of building societies is to help people who want ultimately to own their own
housing. People invest in building societies so that they can get either low-interest loans or
loans free of interest. Yet the former Minister of Housing and his Government took from the
building societies higher tax amounting to $150 million over 10 years. That extra tax, at the
rate of $15 million a year, must be invested in Government securities, and that means that at
least 1500 houses a year will not be made available to people who invest in building societies.
The societies can offer very real competition to the Post Office home ownership saving
scheme, but the benefits available under the Post Office scheme are not available to building
societies. The Government is more concerned to feed money into Government enterprises.
If we examine the growth of the Government's take from those sorts of schemes, or from the
new bond scheme provided for in the Budget, we see that the Government is likely to receive
a greater income from those sources than would have come from the New Zealand
superannuation scheme. When it was in Opposition, the National Party expressed concern
about the amount of money that would have been collected under the superannuation
scheme, but it is quite unconcerned when the money comes from other sources.
The people in my electorate are vitally concerned about housing, but the Government
gives no consideration to young people in need. Last year I helped to vote $8 million for
family benefit capitalisation, but that was underspent by the Minister of Social Welfare.
Only $4,770,000 was spent on assisting the housing of young families. I made many appeals
to the Minister to assist people by family benefit capitalisation, but the only reply I got was
that they were earning too much. When we look at economic reports we find that the income
of most families is far less than would have sustained them over the last 2 years. The result is
that families need family benefit capitalisation to assist them to own their own homes. It is all
very well for the Government to talk about people desiring to own their own homes, but it
puts every barrier up against that. I want the Minister to explain why he spent only
$4,770,000 on family benefit capitalisation, when I voted for $8 million. Only $5 million is
being budgeted for this year.
There is a more pressing need to house young families than there is to provide national
superannuation to people over 60 who do not need it. We are providing $930 million this
year, an increase of over $300 million in the Budget, for many people who do not need the
money, but we are cutting back the opportunity for young people to house themselves. The
Government's priorities are all wrong. There is no incentive in the Budget. When a young
man working in industry has the welfare of his family on his mind because he cannot house
them and they are living in undesirable conditions, it interferes with his performance and
productivity at his work bench. The Government does not seem to think that housing should
be included with other economic developments in the country.
There is a lot in the Budget about the Government's energy policy. Some consideration
was given to the establishment of a car pool on Auckland's North Shore. Consideration was
also given to Auckland in that the thermal power station planned for the Manukau Harbour
is no longer to go ahead. Earlier this year, in a Cabinet reshuffle, the Prime Minister, who
represents an Auckland electorate, replaced a South Island member who was Minister of
Energy Resources with an Auckland member. What does that mean? The Government has
no concern for the South Island- the flooding of the Dunstan Gorge, or the destruction of
valuable apricot growing areas—yet it is prepared to stop the thermal plant in Manukau, on
less important land. Whatever the argument may be for the thermal station, people in
Central Otago should have the same consideration.
As a result of the Budget, people in Wallace, Invercargill, Awarua, and Otago and
Southland generally, who buy a spin dryer to dry their clothes in the winter time, will pay a
heavier tax on that equipment. Yet there are people in Auckland who are paying as much as
$800 a year for electricity to heat their swimming pools. It is more desirable to look at the
economy of swimming pools than to hit the householders' spin dryers.
The consideration given to Auckland in the Budget penalises many people, especially in


## p. 1769 (#225) ###########################################

2 August
1769
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the South Island. I do not believe that the Government is acting properly in the interests of
the South Island in flooding the Dunstan Gorge. The Government's policy will mean that
there will be 3 or 4 weeks' delay in supplying overseas markets with apricots. It is all right for
the Minister of Energy Resources, from an Auckland electorate, to visit Alexandra, as he
did the other day, and say, "What are a few apricot trees? They will grow again somewhere
else". It takes 25 years for an apricot tree to come into full production and give an economic
return, and, so long as it is properly treated, the older the tree, the better the production.
Those considerations are very important, but not to the Auckland Minister. The South
Islander pays the cost.
I want to tell the Minister of Internal Affairs, who is trying to interject, that the South
Island has had a very bad deal from the Government. There is every justification for the
Government to listen to South Island requests for special electricity charges on electricity
generated in that island. The more I see of what the National Government is doing to the
South Island, the more I believe the complaints I read and hear of are justified.
The Budget is not geared to meet New Zealand's real economic or social needs at this
time. It has neglected housing, young people, and the young families, especially those with
young children. It has imposed heavy burdens, particularly on those living in the South
Island. I, along with many thousands of other New Zealanders-possibly as many as
3 000 000 of them-express bitter disappointment at the Budget presented this year by the
National Government.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): While the member for Hutt was in full
flight we heard many verbal pearls drop from him at a rapid rate, but in the course of my
address I hope to effectively demolish most of them. The first comment that must be
made—and everyone knows this-is that there was an energy crisis for 2 years under the
former Labour Government, but nothing approaching a comprehensive energy policy was
ever produced by Labour members.
Mr Hunt: Is he going to blame the Arab-Israeli war now?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I do not know how the member for New Lynn hopes to
explain his Government's inactivity, but it is a fact. At that time there was also a housing
crisis.
Mr Hunt: Ha, ha!
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Well, the member for New Lynn can snigger as much as he
likes; perhaps he can explain why the waiting lists for State houses and housing loan
applications have fallen. The member for Hutt was hardly fair in ignoring the Government's
achievements in housing. He knows very well that a great deal has been achieved,
particularly in the channelling of private finance into housing, by adopting such courses as
reducing Government stock ratios to free more private money for housing, upgrading the
home ownership saving scheme, introducing housing bonds, and introducing a second
mortgage scheme through the extension of the Post Office's personal loan scheme. I should
have thought that one of the great barriers to the implementation of any housing scheme
would be the high value of house and section prices. If the member for Hutt chooses to look
at the figures he will see that there has been a significant reduction in section prices, in
existing house prices, and in new house prices.
Mr Bruce Barclay: What about telephones?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I shall have a great deal to say about telephones in a moment,
if the member will contain himself. At this time I shall list briefly just a few of the National
Government's achievements to date-achievements that I am sure have not failed to
embarrass and annoy the Opposition. First, an overseas deficit of $1,000 million has been
reduced to about $550 million. The internal deficit, which it was thought would reach $1,400
million, has been reduced to about $1,000 million less than it was at the time the estimate
was made.
I turn now to the annual rate of inflation. As Opposition members well know, we have
had some major problems to contend with, but despite overseas inflation, despite demands
on us to spend more, despite having to absorb the costs of the massive subsidy payment on
certain public services under the former Labour Government, and despite demands for extra
wages, we had succeeded in lowering the annual rate of inflation for each consumer price
index since we came to power until one came that was quite out of line-certainly not in line
with the downward trend of the others—and Opposition members have hailed that as a great
victory. They know very well that to a large extent it was due to the lifting of the freeze, wage
increases, and, of course, import price increases. Time and time again when they were in
office, as inflation moved towards a figure of 15 percent per annum, Labour members


## p. 1770 (#226) ###########################################

1770
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
claimed that it was primarily due to overseas inflation.
I believe we have heard enough now to start piecing together just what it might have
been like if Labour had been re-elected to office in 1975. The National Government
inherited an internal deficit that looked as if it would reach $1,400 million. What would have
happened if Labour had won the election and had had to deal with the deficit it had created?
Even with significant cuts in expenditure, extra revenue would have had to be obtained from
somewhere. The Labour Government's credit overseas had been sinking lower and lower,
and the degree to which it could have resorted to the expedient of further borrowing would
have been limited. What would Labour have done, assuming that it did not raise income tax?
Over the past few weeks the Opposition's financial spokesmen have made many
references to different types of expedient. One that keeps recurring is an assets tax, which
could mean anything or nothing; it could mean taxing only the very wealthy, but as there are
very few of them such a tax alone would not have secured anywhere near the amount
needed. A capital gains tax has also been mentioned frequently, and I suggest that if a
Labour Government had been in office we would have seen a continuation of the rapacious
use of sales tax. The former Labour Government's performance in that field far
outshadowed anything that has been introduced by the National Government. There is no
question that if Labour had continued in office it would have had to impose major tax
increases somewhere. We also suspect that the burden would have fallen very heavily on
those in the middle income group.
What about education and health? Somehow, under the former Labour Government,
there was never quite enough money for those services. Given the revenue squeeze we have
had, there is no reason to believe that expenditure on education and health would have been
increased if Labour had remained in office. I turn now to transport. As the Minister of
Transport astutely pointed out the other night, among the Labour Party's ranks are three
former Ministers of Transport, one former Under-Secretary, and one former Transport
Committee chairman, but the party still has no effective ideas on transport. There is no
doubt that the member for Christchurch Central, among others, is very disappointed that the
fertiliser subsidy was not cut further than it was this year. In fact, of course, if Labour had
been in power it would have been under greater pressure than the National Government has
been to cut the fertiliser subsidy far more ruthlessly than was ever contemplated by the
National Government.
In the sporting arena there is no question in my mind but that visas and passports would
have been withheld. A Labour Government would have taken great notice of statements
made by the interest groups that it normally listens to, and I am sure would have withheld
visas and passports. However, from the comfort of the Opposition benches, where they do
not have to suffer the consequences of what they say, Opposition members now apparently
claim that they would not have done that.
The comments made on the superannuation scheme have been really interesting. The
member for Hutt repeated warnings that we have heard frequently in the last few weeks that
the Labour Party plans to cut back the superannuation scheme if it becomes the Government
again. All people who have reordered their lives on the assumption that their superannua-
tion income will continue-and I am talking now about those who are above the poverty line
but who for many years have felt the very sharp, grinding effect of inflation—should be
warned that they will have to make yet further plans to reorder their commitments, their
assets, and their lives in the event of Labour's being returned to office. There is no doubt in
my mind that a future Labour Government would reduce the national superannuation
scheme, perhaps by way of imposing a means test. It might do so in a number of ways, and
we cannot say which method would be adopted. However, let us see what that would mean.
If a means test was reintroduced, it could be assumed: first, that the majority of
beneficiaries formerly receiving universal superannuation—that is, almost 112 000 New
Zealanders-would no longer be eligible for national superannuation, or would have a
reduced entitlement; secondly, that the majority of the 64 000 new applicants—and we are
not talking peanuts, but in tens of thousands-would no longer be eligible for national
superannuation, or would have a reduced entitlement; thirdly, that the majority of the 21
000 people who received age benefits paid at a reduced rate as at 31 March 1976 would have
a reduced entitlement. The reintroduction of a means test could result in 197 000
beneficiaries being affected in some way. The figures I have given are just estimates, but
they show that nearly a quarter of a million New Zealanders would have to change their life
styles and the plans they have made if a means test were imposed and their superannuation
income reduced.


## p. 1771 (#227) ###########################################

2 August
1771
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Hon. M. Rata: Where do you get that from?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I am getting it from Opposition speakers, because one after
the other they-including the member for Hutt-have berated us for our superannuation
scheme, and given a clear hint that, should Labour ever get back into office, the present
superannuation scheme will be cut back. I challenge any Opposition member to deny that his
party has plans for cutting back the superannuation scheme in the event of Labour's ever
gaining office again. There is significant silence. I invite the country to draw its own
conclusion from this pregnant and revealing silence.
Now, I want to say a few words about Post Office finances, which are very much in the
minds of most people at this time.
Mr Rogers: This will be interesting.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: The member for Onehunga has woken up. I thought he would
be a little worried about his future this afternoon, but that is something for the Labour Party
to worry about. It is not our concern if he has to pay his own taxi fares after November 1978.
When the National Government took office, the Post Office was in a state of crisis. There is
no getting away from that fact. The unsatisfied demand for postal and telecommunication
services was actually being inflated by the holding of charges at artificially low levels. As
many people have noted, the public was becoming understandably restive. Unprecedented
subsidy payments in the 3 years Labour was in office cost the taxpayer about $66 million.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: How much?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: The cumulative amount over the 3-year period was about $66
million, and I challenge the member for Onehunga to prove me wrong. Not only was the
taxpayer heavily out of pocket, but the demand for services was distorted through charges
being held at artificially low levels. Instead of having fewer people to cater for, we had more,
in terms of demand for postal and telecommunication services. Our services cost so little
compared to Australian charges that we had the ludicrous spectacle of Australian business
houses sending packets of letters to New Zealand to be posted back to Australia because this
roundabout rigmarole was cheaper—a clear and entertaining example of distortions that can
be caused by subsidies. The member for Petone, who is trying to interject, is a former
Postmaster-General himself. He should know that staff morale is a factor in this, too. I
challenge him to ask any former or the present director-general whether or not staff morale
is enhanced when staff members know they belong to an organisation that is genuinely
paying its way, and not being propped up at great cost to the taxpayer through massive and
unprecedented subsidy payments.
The National Government had to restore health to Post Office finances, while at the
same time absorbing the cost of the subsidies and catering for the rise in demand. Let us not
forget that every major financial problem the Post Office faces today originated or was
enhanced during the Labour Government's term of office. That gives us perspective when
we hear people saying they cannot get a telephone for several months or that postal charges
have increased by more than they should have. On taking office, the National Government
faced three alternatives: first, to sacrifice progress with capital programme, which could
hardly be supported in view of the seriousness of the situation at that time; secondly, to
continue subsidising Post Office finances, which was also unacceptable; and, thirdly, to
maintain the financial viability of the Post Office operation on the user-pay principle, which
was the course of action adopted by the Government. I do not think anyone following with
any degree of closeness the press announcements, and various reports over the last few
months was surprised that the Budget included provision for upgrading some Post Office
charges.
I come now to some of the more entertaining attacks on my administration of the Post
Office in the last few weeks. Several of these were joint statements, not just a statement by
the Opposition spokesman, the member for Onehunga. He had to be helped by none other
than our old friend, the member for Manukau. Here is an example of their gems. Listen to
this, because it makes good reading: "The increased charges early in 1976 brought in an
extra $100 million in revenue, so these latest charge increases are too high.” That statement
is as nonsensical as the member for Onehunga's going to one of his annual shareholder
meetings and saying, "Sorry, folks, we have not yet got the annual profit figures, but our
revenue is up on last year so we will hold our charges this year." That kind of Mickey Mouse
financing is of the type we associate with the member for Manukau, and sure enough, his
name was attached to that particular statement. He lent his name to more than one
Opposition statement on Post Office matters, and has been acting as a sort of de facto
spokesman, presumably to give weight to the performance of the member for Onehunga.


## p. 1772 (#228) ###########################################

1772
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
We would have to assume that this spokesman on Post Office affairs has a very limited future
in that role.
I come to the equation on which were based the increased Post Office charges. We
started the 1977-78 year with a profit of approximately $20 million. The extra revenue from
the new charges is estimated to bring in during the balance of the year approximately $60
million, making a total of $80 million. We deduct from that the $50 million estimated
increase in costs to date, plus a further notional cost increase allowance for the rest of the
year of, say, $10 million, making a profit for 1977-78 of about $20 million. The all-important
assumption here is that this is boosted by the $60 million we will receive in revenue from the
extra charges. Had we not done this, we most certainly would have been in the red again
because of cost increases-a problem that I think every member in the House is familiar
with, and which this Government is working hard to deal with.
The increased charges from early 1976 restored the finances of the Post Office to a
proper basis, but the additional $104 million in revenue was largely taken up in recovering
from the previous year's $38.7 million loss—in the last year of the Labour Government's
administration—and in meeting additional costs of $44.4 million. In addition, borrowing
from the National Development Loans Account was $32.5 million less, thereby saving a
substantial amount in interest charges. I have been asked what effect these price increases
will have on the consumer price index. The calculation is based on the assumption that the
cost will be spread over two consumer price indexes, one of 0.44 percent for the quarter
ended 31 December 1977, and another of 0.20 percent for the quarter ended 31 March
1978-not astronomical increases.
During the last 2 weeks I have been disturbed by suggestions of inefficiency in the Post
Office, and this is an occasion to place before the public some facts and figures that will give
an indication of its achievements. Much has been achieved in running an organisation of its
size and in maintaining services of the size and scale of those that the Post Office runs. First,
the postal service handles about 2 000 000 articles each day; about 90 percent of all letters are
delivered within a day, and about 40 percent of all rural people receive at least a five-days-a-
week mail delivery service. Only a tiny fraction of 1 percent of mail fails to arrive at its
destination. There is a vast service for overseas mail; for example, a letter posted in
Auckland this afternoon will be delivered in many places in England or Europe by Thursday
morning. I challenge anyone to produce a postal system that supports a record of that sort
over the distance to which this particular service operates. Subscriber toll dialling already
serves more than 39 000 subscribers. More than 93 percent of all subscribers have automatic
service. The density of telephones in New Zealand compares very favourably with that of the
rest of the world.
Mr Hunt: What about the exchange at Piha?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I would be interested to know how many telephones the
member for New Lynn got when he represented that part of the world.
Mr Hunt: I never represented that part of the world.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Members can see how easy it is to get under the skin of the
member for New Lynn. I have just been informed that he never represented Piha at any
time, and I am sure that the citizens of Piha will be very pleased to hear that. Also, 95
percent of all subscribers now have free calling to a town or city centre. These facts tell
something of the role of the largest trading department in the country. It employs about
38 000 people and has capital assets worth more than $400 million. In the last few years it has
weathered particularly well the challenges placed upon it, including the catastrophic
management of its finances between 1972 and 1975 by the Labour Government. This
Government has been successful in re-establishing the user-pay principle as the basis for the
future financing of this great trading department. We have already absorbed the social as
well as the economic costs that were the inevitable consequence of the very heavy subsidising
of the service under the Labour Government. We have faced many problems with our
capital programme.
A point that is often overlooked by members of the public as well as Opposition
members is that it is not just enough to secure funds. We also have to take into account the
very high import content of a lot of the equipment. That means that, even when the funds
are available, the speed at which we can provide the facilities is also governed by the state of
our overseas finances. There is often misunderstanding about why one centre seems to
obtain more work than another. However, most people would agree that in an organisation
of this size there is an obligation to ensure a reasonably even spread of employment
throughout the country. An analysis will show that our room for manoeuvre is limited to a


## p. 1773 (#229) ###########################################

2 August
1773
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
degree, but I am determined that we will accelerate the capital programme as fast as
resources permit and in that context we will be as flexible as we can. For example, the other
day we announced that we were providing four new telephone exchanges for the Auckland
area to ensure―
Mr Hunt: In National Party areas.
Mr Rogers: In National Party areas.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: The member for New Lynn and the member for Onehunga
appear to be attacking a programme that will give thousands of Aucklanders a telephone 2
years sooner than they would have had it.
Mr Rogers: In marginal National seats.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: That is a typical example of the Opposition's irresponsibility. I
was giving an example of the way we were improving the telephone service in Auckland by
providing four new exchanges. That is an indication of our willingness to be flexible in our
approach.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Where?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: They are divided between west Auckland, south Auckland,
and north of Auckland.
Mr Hunt: All National seats.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Would the member be interested to know that one of the
largest single projects I have approved since becoming Postmaster-General was for Porirua?
I am sure that the member for Porirua would be fair enough to concede that. The Labour
Government made a dismal mess of its administration of the Post Office. Now members
opposite are throwing stones at this Government in its endeavours to restore the finances of
the Post Office and get some real movement back into its capital programme. I should not
have thought this was unacceptable, but apparently the Opposition thinks it is.
I conclude on one point to do with staff and staff relations. This is important. I am aware
that many hundreds of Post Office employees who work at the counters have, over the years
been receiving complaints about the service and about the policy of the Government, no
matter which Government happens to be in office for the time being. No one expects those
employees to hold a lengthy discussion in support of the Government's policies. All we
expect is the same loyalty from them that we have had from the great majority in the past. I
am confident the Post Office will come through this period of crisis. The foundations have
been well and truly laid. Finally, I should like to pay tribute to the administration of my
colleague and friend the Associate Minister of Finance for his determined efforts to
implement the Government's policy from the outset. He can look back on his year as
Postmaster-General with considerable satisfaction.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central): The speech we have heard was not
worthy of the Attorney-General, but it probably explains why he has been demoted to
Postmaster-General. Let us consider five simple things that have happened in the postal
sector. First, the National Government boosted Post Office charges, with the result that Post
Office revenue has been increased by $101 million. That works out at $33 a person, or
probably about $1 a week for everyone who can write. Secondly, the Government cut rural
mail services. Thirdly, it cut mail clearances at suburban post offices. Are members opposite
proud of that? Fourthly, it slashed the capital works programme by $10 million, with the
result that 30 new telephone exchanges and line depots have been deferred. Fifthly—and this
comes strangely from the Postmaster-General, who comes from a rural electorate-the
Government has closed 22 rural post offices. Those are the achievements of the National
Government in its administration of the Post Office.
I want to deal this afternoon with agricultural matters and farming, because it is evident
that Government members have been avoiding this subject during the Budget debate. One
of the notable things in the Budget has been the increase in interest rates, and particularly
the inclination of the Minister of Finance and the National Government to increase interest
rates at every opportunity. That action transfers money from the home owner, the farmer,
the consumer, the retailer, and the manufacturer, to the moneylender. Under the Labour
Government it cost $35 a week to pay off a house. Today, because of increased interest
rates, it costs between $60 and $70 a week.
It is not only the home owner who is suffering, but also the young farmer. The
Government said it had an interest in the settlement of young farmers, and boasted that it
was settling more than 1000 this year. But what has the Government done to the young men
it promised to settle? It has increased interest by 1 percent. The average loan from the Rural
Bank is about $60,000, so an extra 1 percent means another $600 for every young person who


## p. 1774 (#230) ###########################################

1774
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
is settled. In other words, the first 40 lambs produced by a young sheep farmer will pay the
increased interest. A young dairy farmer will have to milk another three or four cows to meet
the increased interest rate announced in the Budget.
The Moneylenders Act is mentioned on page 37 of the Budget, and we are told that the
interest rate specified in the definition of moneylender will be increased from 10 to 15
percent, to take some account of changes in prevailing interest rates, which in turn reflect the
rates of inflation in recent years. I wonder how many Government members representing
rural electorates have considered the effects that that will have on farmers. The interest rates
charged by stock and station agents have been controlled by the Moneylenders Act, and
farmers have not had to pay more than 10 percent. Now that up to 15 percent can be
charged, I believe that stock and station agents will increase their interest rates from 9.5
percent to between 13 and 14.5 percent, which will yield them an extra $7 million in interest.
No similar provision is made to increase the interest paid to farmers who have money
invested with the stock and station agents. My understanding is that the current interest rate
is about 3 percent.
Mr Falloon: Far more than that.
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: Do you have any evidence that stock and station agents are
paying more than 3 percent on current accounts? I bet you haven't. Farmers have $71 million
invested in current accounts, but when it comes to lending that money back to the farmers,
stock and station agents will now charge 14 percent interest. They will be allowed to do this,
because of the action taken by a Government that pretends to be the farmers' friend. On
page 11 the Budget states, very glibly, that the Government is determined that farmers
should be given every incentive to undertake the substantial investment required if increases
in farm production are to be achieved. Does the Government really believe that increasing
interest rates helps farmers to invest more money in the land?
I turn now to the livestock incentive scheme, and the fertiliser subsidy. In my opinion
the present taxation system fails to distinguish between the efficient and the inefficient
farmer. It rewards capital, particularly capital gain, rather than production. Taxation can be
a positive step towards achieving the Government's economic and social goals, but it must be
used to stimulate farmers, not to force them to retrench. The Government has said it will
remove some of the incentive to spread fertiliser, so a farmer will be able to grow less grass,
yet the Government is providing an incentive to put more stock on less grass. It certainly is
an accountant's Budget. How silly to pretend that by growing less grass, and encouraging
more stock, a good deed is being done for the farming community.
During the second world war British farmers were told how to operate their land. One
farmer received an instruction to carry on ploughing. He sent back a brief message, “Sorry,
busy lambing". He received another message from the bureaucrats, "Postpone the lambing,
get on with the ploughing." That story reminds me of the present Government. In two
successive Budgets the Government has reduced the subsidy on fertiliser. When a farmer has
feed and grass available he knows best whether to put more stock units on to the grass, or to
grow them bigger, put more weight on them, or produce more wool. He should be left to
make the decision. But the Government is making it for him, because this is a bureaucratic
Government run by an accountant.
The Budget mentioned a second modification to the livestock incentive scheme, aimed
at easing the entry requirement for smaller farmers. It is proposed that the stock unit
increase be reduced from 100 to 50. The Government has not reduced the requirement,
because it is still necessary to have 65 cows or 1000 stock units. What is written in the Budget
is just humbug. The Minister of Finance has no understanding or maybe it was the
Associate Minister of Finance who wrote that portion. The Ministers should consider the
farming people, who know something about these matters.
I turn now to a more important consideration—the balance of payments. The deficit for
the March 1977 year was $861 million, as shown in the July Abstract of Statistics. The
Government has failed to grasp the opportunity to use the extra $1,000 million. It had the
income and blew the lot. On page 2 of the Budget it is stated that our job is to expand
production. No one else can do that for New Zealand-I go along with that. It is the
Government's job to help the farmer increase his production. Page 2 of the Budget states,
"world demand and market access, are largely beyond our power to influence". If we cannot
increase production to meet our overseas balance of payments we will be broke—that is what
the Government is saying.
The Tories have been smug and short-sighted about the farming industry for many
years. They have expected the farm income at gate to pay for unlimited imports. The Tories


## p. 1775 (#231) ###########################################

2 August
1775
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
have taken the farmers for granted and taken production at the farm gate as being the
answer to their problems. What should happen? Instead of producing goods in bulk and then
looking wildly around for a market, we should be scrutinising the market, finding the
openings, then ensuring that we produce the specialist goods that will meet the opportunity.
What incentive in that direction has the Government given in the Budget? None.
More incentive should be given to the industry to add value to our indigenous wealth.
The best the stock incentive scheme could attain would be an increase in overseas income of
$50 million to $60 million at present prices. The Government has a deficit of $860 million, so
what chance does it have of overcoming the balance of payments problem? Its only answer is
to increase production by reducing the amount of grass and putting on some skinny sheep.
From that policy the Government hopes to receive about $50 million. I offer a solution to the
Minister of Trade and Industry and the Minister of Overseas Trade by suggesting that we
process more of our indigenous wealth and primary products than has been encouraged by
the Government. The sooner the National Government realises that, the better. The
farming industry does not comprise 50 000 farmers, but 200 000 to 300 000 people, among
them transport operators, stock and station agents, bankers, dairy factory workers, share-
milkers, and many others, plus workers in the fertiliser, freezing and waterfront industries.
These people must be harnessed to further process the primary products being produced.
If the greasy wool sent out of New Zealand could be processed-and I am not
suggesting that all of it could be- and exported as yarn, New Zealand would increase its
overseas earnings by between $600 million and $700 million. How does that compare with
$50 million in increased production? By processing the wool we could add real wealth to our
balance of payments. A firm in Christchurch is doing a tremendous job processing meat to
market throughout the world. For every lamb processed it receives a 40 percent increase in
the price of the primary product overseas. New Zealand has been exporting lambs in bulk for
too long; they should be processed in New Zealand. Other savings that are made are not
incidental, but very important. About 7 tonnes of lamb carcasses fill a container, but the
same container will hold between 12 and 15 tonnes of processed lamb. About 26 000 000
lambs are killed in New Zealand each year, and if one divides that figure by the number of
lambs that will fit into a container, one can see the saving in shipping costs to the country.
The National Government has refused to examine these matters.
I have not mentioned the incentives that should go to dairy factories to enable them to
process their products further before export. Sugar beet under irrigation in the Canterbury
area was recently discussed and propositions were considered. A pilot investigation was
needed, which would have cost about $250,000. The National Government turned the
proposition down. An acre of land in sugar beet would produce five times as much in
overseas earnings than it would in meat and wool. At present, New Zealand imports sugar
from Cuba, a communist country. That is all right if that is what the National Government
wants.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: What about Fiji?
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: New Zealand does import sugar from Fiji, but there would be
room to import from Fiji even if New Zealand produced sugar beet. Why will the National
Government not spend the $250,000 to investigate the sugar beet industry in the Canterbury
area. Not only would a sugar beet industry increase the value of each acre of land, it would
also encourage regional development, by providing more work opportunities, and increasing
the population of rural communities. This is what we want, but the National Government is
sweeping such ideas aside. The Minister of Trade and Industry holds down the price of
wheat, and I predict that within 2 years we shall be importing wheat again, simply because
the Minister is not prepared to pay the wheat farmers.
Mr Talbot: How much did we import during the 3 years of the Labour Government?
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: It is all very well for the member for South Canterbury to talk.
He was the one who promised $3.50 for wheat, and when $3 was mentioned he was overseas.
The National Government has not grasped the possibility of adding wealth to our indigenous
materials. This would have a two-fold effect by helping to meet our balance of payments
problem and adding to regional development in a very real way. It would encourage people
to stay in rural communities and that would benefit local schools and hospitals. It is no
wonder that the Government has avoided talking about its farming policy. It is a dismal
policy, a failure, a surrender policy.
I turn briefly to marketing, which is another stage in the use of our primary products.
The National Government cannot think beyond the price at the farm gate. Much more effort
must be put into marketing. New Zealand is a half-hearted salesman, but it should be the


## p. 1776 (#232) ###########################################

1776
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
toughest and most ingenious in the world. By ingenious I mean, for the benefit of the
Minister of Overseas Trade, that one does not go to Ireland to stir up trouble so that the Irish
get all steamed up and go off to the Common Market and stop New Zealand's application for
an increased butter price. That is what happened, and the Minister knows it. He stirred up
the Irish people, who made stronger and stronger representations at the Common Market
negotiations. He incited opposition by going to Ireland, and he knows that full well. It could
be that I am blaming the wrong person, of course. Perhaps the Prime Minister told him to
go. However, it is certain that New Zealand has shown insensitivity to the Irish question.
When we talk of exporting our primary products to the Common Market, we will, of
course, stir up resentment among the Irish farmers. The members of the Common Market
are self-supporting in food, and do not need our dairy products, nor do they particularly
want them. Any success we have had with the Common Market has been because of the
loyalty of Britain, which has fought our battles for us. In a similar position, the Hon. Joe
Walding as Minister of Overseas Trade had two increases of 18 percent each within 18
months, while this Minister of Overseas Trade has not yet managed to get a guarantee of 10
percent. We need a far more aggressive trading policy.
Finally, I should like to quote from page 2 of the Budget: "it would only require policy
changes at the margin in the United States, the EEC and Japan, involving a managed
relaxation of import policies, to expand significantly the volume of international trade in
dairy products and beef. Our hopes must now be pinned on the GATT multilateral trade
negotiations to improve the position of agricultural producers in the longer term.” I agree
with that statement.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: He agrees with it!
Mr BRUCE BARCLAY: Yes, I do, but it is strange that the Minister of Overseas Trade
did not bother to go to America to talk to the American Government and become involved
in the GATT negotiations, because the strongest GATT negotiator will be the American
Government, and if anything can give New Zealand's primary products a chance of
increased access to the world market, it will be those negotiations. We could land butter on
the tables of the United States at 70c a pound. The retail price at present is $1.20, but
although we can produce the butter we cannot get access to the market because of
protectionism. Unless the protectionism is broken down, we shall not gain access.
It did not take the Prime Minister of Japan long to go to America for discussions, nor
did it not take the Canadian Minister of Transport long to talk to the new American
Administration. However, it takes the National Government a long time to get around to
such essential discussions. Its Ministers dilly dally around the European countries, insulting
people on the way. They should be fighting for the right of access of New Zealand primary
products to various markets. Those markets are most likely to be freed up by GATT, and
here are many countries we should be applying to.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): Is it not extraordinary that after a
decade of anti-Americanism we now have a new-found friend in America! The member for
Christchurch Central quoted from the Budget, and I object to his taking a few sentences out
of context. He did not continue by reading this sentence: "The inclusion of agriculture in the
OECD communique in this sense was, however, a major breakthrough." That was an
important omission. For the first time the Prime Minister was able to obtain recognition
from the OECD that agricultural products should be included in the GATT negotiations,
and very soon the Prime Minister will speak to the Prime Minister of Japan and negotiate
with him on the price of meat in return for fishing rights in New Zealand's extended 200-mile
zone. There were other matters. For example, the member very conveniently talked about
the reduction of fertiliser. I have three Budget speeches here.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The member for Christchurch Central made an extraordinary
statement at the beginning of his speech, and was very critical of the cuts in expenditure
made by the Government. He failed to realise that this approach of not worrying about
Government expenditure led to exactly that which appears in Table No. 2 of the
Budget-and I suggest he spend some time looking at it. The 1976 column of expenditure
shows that the socialist Labour Government committed this country to an overexpenditure
of just over $1 billion-$1001 million dollars. Having in a few brief months suggested that
the deficit before borrowing would be of the order of $497 million, the Labour Government,
by this total disregard for sensible budgeting and expenditure, committed this country, in a


## p. 1777 (#233) ###########################################

2 August
1777
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
matter of 6 months, to an overexpenditure of an extra $500 million, in round terms.
The member was also critical of the stock incentive scheme incorporated in the Budget.
I have with me three Budget speeches, extraordinary documents, all with yellow covers, and
all by the Labour Minister of Agriculture, who needs to be reminded of one or two
statements in them. The 1973 Budget states on page 21: "The assistance for fertiliser
transport will be reduced from 9 cents a ton mile to 7 cents for distances under 20 miles...”.
"It has also been decided to stop paying subsidies on weedicides, pesticides, stock drenches,
and the aerial application of fertiliser and lime." That was good. Then what do we see in the
1974 Budget? There was no suggestion of the reintroduction of a fertiliser subsidy, although
the farmers were already running into grave difficulties, but, rather, of the introduction of
adverse-events bonds. I have often wondered how many there were; I understand two
people took them out. That was about the sum total of the Labour Government's proposals
in 1974. Certainly in 1975, because an election was coming up, it decided to reintroduce
some subsidies. The member for Christchurch Central failed to remind the House that
during that same period the Government introduced a most extraordinary system that could
really be called the ewe slaughter bonus policy, because that is exactly what it was—the ewe
lamb slaughter policy.
Mr Hunt: Oh, go on!
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The net result, for the sake of the farming member for New
Lynn, was that we lost just on 2 000 000 potentially productive female sheep. I have put it in
simple language for him, and I hope he understands. The Government has spent the last 2
years trying to restore that loss, and in fact stock numbers have begun to go up for the first
time since the 3 years of the Labour Government. I think that is enough time spent on a
member who prides himself on understanding agriculture-interestingly enough, the
member for Christchurch Central. During the speech by the Leader of the Opposition we
saw the extraordinary spectacle of three Opposition members sound asleep.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Four.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Well, it has gone up to four. I could excuse his members for
going to sleep, because I am sure they understood that their leader completely failed to
discuss the real significance of the Budget, and, indeed, did not seem to want to discuss the
Budget.
Mr Hunt: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I heard the Minister of Education say that
three Opposition members may have been sleeping on a previous occasion. I wonder if you
could rule on this matter, Sir, because I distinctly remember that when an Opposition
member referred to one member on the Government benches doing the same thing it was
ruled that it was not in good taste and should not be referred to. I think the statement is
totally inaccurate, and in fact a complete lie. I do not think it is true at all.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member knows, almost better than anyone else in the
House, that it is completely and most reprehensibly out of order for him to say, in the course
of raising what he was treating as a point of order, that a statement was a lie. Unless I
misheard the honourable member, he said that something that was said was a lie. Did the
member not use that word?
Mr Hunt: I apologise, Sir. I did not mean it in that way.
Hon. Members: Oh! Oh!
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I am dealing with this matter. I do not need help.
Mr Hunt: I can see now that I could have been misinterpreted in that way. I apologise,
and withdraw. I meant at the time the comment was made in the press and elsewhere-not in
the House-I thought it was totally inaccurate and unfair, and that the comments made in
the press were inaccurate, and were a lie. I did not refer to any member of the House, or any
statement made in the House. If I did, I withdraw and apologise.
Hon. Allan McCready: It was accurate. I counted them.
Mr SPEAKER: I deprecate the zealous shouting from members assisting me in doing my
duty. The point has been raised that to suggest that members are asleep in the House is in
bad taste, and may be out of order. I think that many things more offensive than that are said
from time to time in the House, but I will say that, when one of these school-playground
notices of motion recently came to me for approval or rejection, I rejected a notice of motion
alleging that three members of one side were asleep. I thought it was inappropriate, and not
a provable statement. Similarly, I think it is probably provocative, although I do not think it
is out of order but needlessly provocative, to refer to members of the House being asleep. I
think that, on further consideration, the honourable member will not persist with the point.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Mr Speaker, I am perfectly happy to withdraw. The Opposition
8-Vol. 412


## p. 1778 (#234) ###########################################

1778
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
is in trouble on other scores anyway, and I do not think I will have to withdraw on this one. I
understand, from viewing television tonight-and perhaps that was what was worrying the
Leader of the Opposition when he was speaking-that Labour members are going to win 12
seats in Auckland, and that they have 16 sitting or former members of Parliament wanting to
stand for those 12 seats. There are some very interesting possibilities. We are probably going
to have two Deputy Leaders of the Opposition in the House, and possibly 24 or 25 others
vying for the same position.
The Opposition has failed to grasp the true significance of this Budget. I want to go
through it carefully with members opposite, because I am sure they would appreciate being
shown its real value. I turn to the first sentence in the Budget: "The international economic
outlook is one of continuing uncertainty. In the short term there are no grounds for
optimism. There is no sign that international conditions will assist New Zealand's adjustment
to the difficult circumstances of recent years." A little further over, on page 2, we see: “Our
balance of payments outlook, which is a major determinant of economic policy, will depend
on three things: the growth in export production, world demand for our exports, and access
to markets. It is our job to expand export production. No one else can do that for us. The
other two factors, world demand and market access, are largely beyond our power to
influence." I have already dealt with the claim made by the member for Christchurch
Central about the results of the multilateral GATT agreements, and pointed out to him that
the Prime Minister made one of the biggest breakthroughs in this field that we can have.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Ha, ha!
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The member can laugh, but there was no chance of the previous
Government's achieving that. This is a matter upon which we should compliment the Prime
Minister, and not take the attitude that the member for Christchurch Central has taken. I am
trying to set these matters out so that members opposite can understand the statements in
the Budget. Table 2 of the Budget shows that the internal deficit, which in 1976 was more
than $1 billion, was reduced last year to $506 million. That is a substantial reduction in our
internal borrowing commitments.
This year, in spite of an increase in Government expenditure, we have still been able to
forecast a borrowing requirement of $382 million, which is too high, but a great improve-
ment on what we had before. Substantial reductions have been made in the internal deficit.
The Budget states on page 4 that there has been a very good recovery from a situation where
New Zealand was living far beyond its income-which is exactly what it was doing. It states
further: "We are still living beyond our income, but the gap is narrowing, and we have a
clear idea of what is ahead. . . . Economic growth is not an end in itself. It is, however, a
necessary prerequisite to the attainment of our society's individual and collective objectives,
whether they be expressed as the spending power of personal incomes, the quality of family
life, the quality and quantity of our social services, or the economic, social, and physical
environment in which we and succeeding generations will live."
That is the background against which the Budget should be considered. It has three
basic objectives, one of which is to increase the proportion of exports. How does the Budget
go about this? It emphasises, first and foremost, forestry, farming, and manufacturing. If
members opposite cared to look, they would see that under the section on farming there are
11 methods by which this objective could be attained. There are two most important
modifications in the livestock incentive scheme. The Budget also emphasises land settle-
ment, recommends deer farming as an export potential, makes changes in the concessional
internal rates of interest, provides for rural housing for farm workers and assistance to young
farmers buying their first homes, gives stamp duty exemption, and proposes a noxious plants
control scheme. The Opposition has been looking for some great cure-all-one sweep of the
brush and it will all be painted clean. That is impossible, so the Budget approaches the
matter on a broad basis.
Other matters that failed to draw the attention of members opposite were those
pertaining to my portfolio of education. The member for Christchurch Central spoke about
rural labour. One of the most important ways of retaining such labour is by providing
bursaries for rural school children. The National Government has a proud record in this. In
the past 2 years, boarding bursaries have been increased from $300 to $400, and in this
Budget by another $100, making $500 in all-an increase of 62 percent. In addition, and
related to agricultural production, is the increase in the allowable income for taxation
purposes for the payment of school fees. That is extremely important and is having a
beneficial effect upon people living in rural areas. There has been a continual upgrading of
rural opportunities with the opening of schools catering for children from Forms 1 to 7,


## p. 1779 (#235) ###########################################

2 August
1779
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
which means that the children of farm and other rural workers can remain at home instead of
going away to school. Another small but very significant item in the Budget provides that
people in remote areas need pay only the first $10 of fares for sending their children away to
school. I should highlight that the maximum rebate of $350 on school fees-and donations
for charitable purposes would be included-will total $3 million, taking into account the
rural sector involved.
The Budget includes seven separate policy proposals for increasing fishing, which has
very important export potential. I do not intend to go through all those proposals, but
members opposite would do well to look at them. I am sure that members on both sides of
the House wish the Prime Minister well in his coming talks with the Prime Minister of Japan
about an increase in that country's meat imports in return for fishing rights. Those talks are
vitally important to our country.
The Budget also emphasises the development of the efficient import replacement
industries, the most important of which deal with energy. Members opposite should examine
this in detail, as they would then see that the Government is making a substantial effort to
obtain the equivalent of an import replacement industry—that is, the equivalent in energy of
the vast sums we are paying for imported oil. Science has a very important role to play, and
my department is involved in a geological and geophysical assessment of geothermal and
coal exploration and investigation, and in the geophysical and geological exploration for oil,
and natural gas. It is also involved in solar heating research and thermal insulation. All these
come together to form a packet, and, although there may be many pieces, it is a very
comprehensive policy aimed, among other things, at reducing the cost of our imports. It
would be true to say that no other Budget has attempted so much.
The Budget contains a great number of very important and significant proposals for
implementing education policies and filling in gaps in education. I have a list of the policies
as they were set out, and the order in which they were placed. Had I been able to, I would
have given the reinstatement of the day relief scheme a lower priority. However, last year I
asked the teacher organisations where they placed it, and as it was their first priority put it in
that order. The restoration of the $2.2 million cost of the day relief scheme limited me in
what else I could do for primary and secondary education.
Next in the order of priority were the grants for the maintenance of schools, which were
increased from $23.9 million to $28.2 million-an overall increase of some 18 percent. That
was very important. Although some people are critical and say that the fabric of education is
being imperilled, they do not realise the amount of money that has been made available both
for grants of this sort and also for building programmes.
In addition, because we think it is important, there will be increased activity with the
National Council of Adult Education. The package includes early childhood education, and
we have been able to take a big step forward towards the possibility of all children, where
feasible, being able by 1980 to participate in pre-school education. We have approached the
problem from the point of view of using the manpower and physical resources available to
us. In the ensuing year, about 8000 more children will be able to have some form of pre-
school education.
One of the first steps has been to move from a reliance on purpose-designed buildings
towards greater use and adaptation of existing community facilities, resources, and person-
nel. To encourage people to understand the great value of early childhood education, a
further 15 pre-school community workers will be placed in selected rural areas in the
northern half of the North Island, and in selected urban areas, to advise and encourage
people to use the pre-school services in their localities. We are looking at the possibility of
using primary classroom accommodation, and of making more economic provision for pre-
school education buildings at selected new schools, and in some cases at existing schools
where there is continuing growth. This is an expansion of pre-school services at less cost than
that required for specific purpose-designed accommodation. Groups of very dedicated
people are working around New Zealand in small, non-profit-making, pre-school activities.
They have been ineligible for Government grants because, in general, their facilities are too
small or otherwise cannot meet the requirements necessary to become free kindergartens or
play centres. They will now be given grants towards the supervisors' salaries or for operating
expenses, or, in some cases, subsidies on equipment.
We will give increased assistance for alterations to buildings used as playcentres. Under
the present policy, playcentres get a subsidy of $4 for $1, with a maximum of $4,000, which
may be spent on renovating existing buildings. One of the problems has been that the
playcentre had to own the building, or have it for its sole use. We will waive the restriction
8.


## p. 1780 (#236) ###########################################

1780
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that the playcentre must have sole use of the premises, and we will increase the maximum
expenditure on which a subsidy is payable to $7,000. In addition, we will give grants of up to
$500 for the training of officers on-the-spot and of supervisors in playcentres. We will also
increase our activity in the mobile pre-school area. All these things form a package. None of
them are big in themselves, but taken together they make it possible for about 8000 more
children to get pre-school education.
We have a group of policies that deal with technical institutions and community
education. Now that we know the way in which to establish community colleges, the criteria
are clear. The first three community colleges will be established next year, at Whangarei,
Rotorua, and Southland. We have had problems for some time because students in senior
technical divisions in some secondary schools have been doing tertiary courses, but have not
been able to receive tertiary bursaries, and in other respects their position has been a little
uncertain. We have expanded the training in certain senior technical divisions of secondary
schools to provide for their qualification for a subsidy. We have set up a whole new
programme of courses of considerable interest that are very important in relation to the
export drive in primary industries, with which most of them are associated. The courses
cover industrial implementation, auto electricity, auto mechanics, and motorcycle
mechanics-which are important for the maintenance of chainsaws, farm motorbikes, and so
on. Other courses include printing and photo-engraving, and timber machine and saw
doctoring, which are very important to the forestry industry. We have also established two
new paramedical courses. There has been criticism of the amount by which tertiary bursaries
have been increased. We inherited from the previous Government a standard tertiary
bursary.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: What did you promise?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: It was hastily put together, and full of anomalies. We made some
promises for immediate implementation-for example, the A and B bursary. That has been
implemented. We promised that we would have a reformed bursary, and that it would be
devised in close consultation with all the interested parties. Last year, the conference
identified a whole group of further anomalies, almost all of which have been rectified in the
Budget.
In addition, although there was no real compulsion according to our policy, we agreed
to increase the standard tertiary bursary. If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition looks at the
policy carefully, he will see that we agreed to increase the reformed bursary. Because of the
circumstances, I believed that it was necessary to increase the present bursary. The standard
tertiary bursary was worth $24, with an abatement of $11, so that people who did not qualify
for the boarding component received only $13. It was instituted by the previous Govern-
ment, and the first payments were made last year. It is interesting that the increase from 1975
until the presentation of this Budget is from $14.6 million to $27.2 million. Even taking into
account that extra people are obtaining the standard tertiary bursary, the Government
money spent on bursaries represents an increase of 86 percent in 2 years.
Members might like to know that that amount represents about three times the
expenditure on pre-school education, about six times the expenditure on the National
Library Service, and about 18 percent of all the expenditure on university education—that is,
teachers' salaries, maintenance of university buildings, research work inside the buildings,
and lectures. It can honestly be said that to the majority of students who received the abated
bursary, the increase is about 15 percent this year, which can be justified as reasonable. I
have already dealt with what is involved within the package for rural education. The Budget
also implements other policies relating to special education. One of particular value is the
payment that will be made to parents who have to relocate their families in order that
handicapped children may attend special schools. Those parents will be given an allowance.
Probably one of the most interesting matters in the Budget, to which I shall refer only
briefly, shows clearly that the Government is aware of the need for conservation. I suppose I
have had as much satisfaction from the decision to continue microfilming our precious
newspaper records as I have had from anything else. I regard that decision, at a time when
we have financial restrictions, as praiseworthy, and emphasise that it is essential for
conservation. The Budget consists of a great number of small items, which in the aggregate
will help to form the basis for our great movement forward in the next few years. If
Opposition members look carefully at the way in which the Budget has been drafted they will
see that it is an exercise in sensible government; a basis for our final move away from the
dreadful economic conditions we inherited from the Labour Government.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): The Minister of Education


## p. 1781 (#237) ###########################################

2 August
1781
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
summed the Budget up in the last few seconds of his speech: it is an exercise in pinpricking.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: What?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: It is an exercise in pinpricking.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: I didn't say anything of the sort.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The Minister said the Budget is a whole lot of small details, and
that is just what it is. I refer him to a remark he made about bursaries. He said that about 18
percent of all university costs are now going on bursaries. I ask him to consider whether
there is any point in university education if students cannot afford to go to university.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's not the point.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: If we do not have students at the universities to exercise their
educational opportunities, what is the point of the other 82 percent of expenditure? The
Minister made promises that were thrown out in the glossy magazine.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Oh, bunkum!
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: “Oh, bunkum", says the leader of our opposition, acting pro tem. I
refer to the fact that the Minister of Education, as the member for Ruahine, was prominent
in telling students in 1975 what he would do for them. This year, the best he can do is tell
them what he is going to do for them next year. Next year he is going to give them $2 a week,
but he is not going to give them anything this year. A protest march is being held by Massey
University tomorrow. I wonder whether the ex-chancellor will be there. I wonder if the
outstanding champion of Massey University students will be present to tell them what he is
going to give them next year?
Mr N. P. H. Jones: When the roll is called up yonder he'll be there.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: And even limpy boys might be there too. I suggest that if what the
Minister of Education has said tonight means anything he will be in the Square in Palmerston
North, or wherever the speech-making is to take place, to tell those university students what
he is doing the day after tomorrow. Of course, he is not going to do anything until next year.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Oh, come on. Read the Budget and see all that's been done.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am reading the Budget, and see that the university students will
receive $2 a week next year, if they can afford to stay there that long. Look, we have an
outstanding case of Government members on the defensive.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Listen to him.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I wonder why it is that today each Government member has had to
sail into members on this side of the House in the fond belief that he will not be a member of
the House after the next election. I remind members opposite of a statement made by a
member of the Young Nationals, as reported in the Waikato Times of 6 July. That gentleman
wanted the National Party to dump the old guard: "Mr Peter Wynne-Jones today claimed
that the National Party was full of dead wood."
Mr Comber: Well, it came back.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Yes, it came back after the 1972 election, and "Old Landslide" got
enough votes to keep him greasing on for another couple of years. Government members
know the tactics: you try to divert attention from what you are planning to do by talking
about what you claim are the failings of the other party. It seems that Government members
do not recognise that this is their Budget. They can disown the Prime Minister, they can
disown the Minister of Finance, but each one of them has to face up to the fact that he has to
justify the Budget to his constituents. It is no use telling people on this side of the House that
we have a problem about selection. The Prime Minister might well come to the rescue of
every one of them, as he did in 1972, and say, "We do not want any challenges to sitting
members"; but that will not put members opposite back into Parliament. That poor little
chap in Hamilton says, "Let's get rid of the dead wood. Let's have some young fillies." As I
look at members opposite, I heartily applaud everything he says. However, the only reason I
am referring to that is as evidence of the reasons they have been putting forward. I shall not
go further with that; it would be pointless, because after the 1978 election they will not be
back.
I want to refer now to a statement made by the Minister of Finance when he previewed
his 1976 Budget. The headline was, "Tax relief dominates". I suggest that that must be very
deep in his thoughts, because it did not emerge in the 1976 Budget nor in the 1977 Budget;
but it is there, recorded in the Evening Post of 10 June 1976: The Prime Minister reviews his
1976 Budget. Tax relief dominates." Further on in the first section I see, "Mr Muldoon said
that in a country of our type the social welfare programme demanded by the people was and
would be of first priority in Government budgeting." That was the programme "demanded
by the people". So what is provided for the people in the 1977 Budget? We see that they will


## p. 1782 (#238) ###########################################

1782
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
have $930 million for national superannuation, which goes predominantly to people who do
not need it, and prevents tax relief being given to the rest of the 3 000 000 people.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: Is the Labour Government going to change it?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Now, you see, that member got the chop; he has been demoted to
the Post Office and is now Postmaster-General; I had intended to say more about him a little
later, but as he has interjected I shall say it now. The Postmaster-General said that the Post
Office is not making a big profit, and the Government increased Post Office charges by $110
million to cover a discrepancy of, I believe, $38 million, according to our staff. Now the
Postmaster-General is trying to hide that by saying he has spent the money. There is one rule
for the Postmaster-General and another rule for every private trader. Is it any wonder that
Government members do not like democratic socialists? We have principles that go right
through the full range, but of course the blokes on the other side of the House believe in
socialising your losses and capitalising your gains; and here they are doing it again. The
Postmaster-General is following a stunt that his own Minister of Trade and Industry would
not permit of any private trader. A private trader cannot increase his prices in anticipation of
capital expenditure.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: He would just go straight out of business.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: No, he has to raise capital. He can depreciate his existing
equipment. Here we have the pump specialist pushing out a few half-truths again. He is in
the housing business, and I shall come on to him in a moment. The Post Office has hidden an
excess charge of $70 million in capital expenditure, but the Government will not allow a
private operator to do anything like that for even 70c, let alone $70 million. Apparently we
have one law for the Government in balancing its books and another law for everybody else
when he is being honest. I want to emphasise this, because the Post Office has covered all its
charges and capital expenditure for this year, and now the Minister is saying, "We will be in
deficit for next year and so we have to put up profits to cover the deficit and the inflation of
wages, and therefore a letter will cost 10c to send in October instead of the present 8c."
There we have our sincere ex-Attorney-General, who was dumped for a boo-boo.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: He is still Attorney-General.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Well, our Associate or Assistant Minister of Finance, dumped for
nobody knows what, but now Postmaster-General, incapable of applying commercial
principles which the Minister of Trade and Industry applies to everyone else.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: I shall not allow the Post Office to go on making a loss like you
mob did.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I do not mind being addressed as “a mob" by a gangster, because it
shows I am superior to him.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Since when has it been permissible
for a member of this House to refer to another member as a gangster?
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: You bought it.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The customary mode of reference to a member of this House is a
"member" or "honourable member", but neither gangster nor mob. There has been a fairly
substantial lowering of the level of debate in the Chamber in recent minutes, and I suggest
that those taking the largest part in it refrain from lowering it any further, but rather bring it
back to its normal standard.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I simply emphasise that the Government, through the Postmaster-
General, has taken $101 million in extra charges to cover a declared deficit of $38 million,
and is now rigging the books to show justification for it.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Is it in order for a member of the
Opposition to suggest or imply that a Minister of the Crown is rigging the books?
Mr Hunt: I heard the Deputy Leader of the Opposition quite clearly. I thought he was
using strong debating material in replying to comments made in an equally strong manner,
and that his remarks were far more reasonable than those that had been made against him. I
did not think that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was out of order.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I did not think the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was using
strong debating material at all, but that is beside the point. He accused a member on this side
of the House of rigging the books. Regardless of the kind of debating material he was
using and you have already commented on that-I suggest that the term "rigging the
books", when applied to a Minister of the Crown, is clearly out of order.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Speaking to the point of order, Mr Speaker, I would suggest that
putting this year's capital costs in the books as a basis for depreciation on this year's
operation is at least a commercial practice which would not be accepted outside this House.


## p. 1783 (#239) ###########################################

2 August
1783
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Speaking again very briefly to the point of order, it is, of
course, the manner in which this has been done by successive Governments over many years,
and one would have thought that a former Minister of Finance would know that, but,
regardless of whether or not he does know-
Mr Hunt: That is not a point of order.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Ah, strong debating material. Regardless of whether or not he
knows it, the term "rigging the books" applied to a Government Minister is clearly out of
order. It implies impropriety.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Shady practice.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Yes, that is right. The member for Timaru, who is becoming
an expert on this kind of thing and has been rebuked constantly during the session, simply
compounds the offence.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The point having been raised, I have no hesitation in saying that
the charge that a Minister is "rigging the books" is out of order. The term clearly implies
deliberate dishonesty in the presentation of figures. It is arguable that depreciation should be
covered this year or that. I would not profess to have sufficient knowledge of accountancy
practice to say whether it is ever done or never done, but to suggest that a Minister is rigging
the books is unparliamentary-not violently so, but sufficiently so for me to require it to be
withdrawn.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I withdraw it, Mr Speaker, and say that the Minister, in his speech,
sought to cover up the fact that money which should be declared as profit is being shown as
expenses, and then being used to justify a further increase in charges. I invite any member
opposite to pick the bones out of that one, but I do not want to pursue it any further. The
$101 million in extra charges levied by the Post Office are to cover a deficit barely one-third
of that size, and then, because of capital expenditure, we are told half way through this year
that the prime rate of postage is to be increased from 8c to 10c; and the Postmaster-General
is still prepared to say that this is justified. It is another form of taxation, a kind of levy on the
public, not permitted to any private trader.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: Now say the money is going to the superannuation scheme.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: No, the need for the Government to hide its deficit before
borrowing is avoided, and that is another point I shall come to shortly, but I thank the
Minister for hurrying things up. He is so impatient. He knows all the things that are wrong
with his department, and cannot wait for me to uncover them. Now I shall refer to the
Budget in general. No significant tax rebate applies this year. It is a case of pay now and get
your rebate later.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Who spent the money?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The same Minister who, on an earlier occasion, said, "I spent the
lot." National superannuation accounts for $930 million. The member for Waitemata, who
interjected, has declared his intention of standing again, though not to be re-elected, but
there is no great danger of his spending anything. The single-income family will receive the
rebate next year, when, hopefully, memories as to its source may condition the use of the
vote. That single-family income rebate will be swallowed up, firstly, in inflation; secondly, in
the increase in tax on that inflated income; and, thirdly, in extra charges for State
housing, mortgages, or whatever other resources the family may have. Of course, the
member for Waitemata would not appreciate anything of that. I simply want to state that,
just as the single-income family rebate does not come in until next year, so the young mother
with her nappies to dry in the Wellington or the Christchurch climate pays the tax this year,
although there is no provision in the Budget to help her to buy a gas heater for 2 years. She
might get the equipment.
Richard Walls: They could put you on the end of it.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I see that the member for Dunedin North is trying to antagonise
the demonstrators again-"Old Punch Up" from Dunedin North, who is following the noble
example of his leader, so I suppose that is reasonable. Anyone who wants help from the
provisions of this Budget has to wait a year, or almost 2 years, because there is no way in
which the Maui gas-
Richard Walls: Yellow. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! There are far too many interjections from one source.
Mr Kirk: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The member for Dunedin North described the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition in a manner which is completely unsatisfactory in this
Chamber. I ask that he withdraw his comment and apologise.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I thought the description was entirely satisfactory.


## p. 1784 (#240) ###########################################

1784
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr SPEAKER: I heard a number of interjections from one source which I regretted.
When I reproved the member they ceased. Another member raised a point of order that one
of the terms used was unbecoming, but I have no details of the expression.
Mr Kirk: The member for Dunedin North called the Deputy Leader of the Opposition
yellow. I consider that quite unsatisfactory.
Mr McLay: Mr Speaker, you should view this matter in the context in which it took
place. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition replied to some inconsequential but relevant
interjections made by the member for Dunedin North, and called the member for Dunedin
North "Old Punch Up". He then made some further derogatory comments. It was in
response to that that the comment came from the member for Dunedin North. We have had
nothing more than an interchange across the House which was provoked in an unsolicited
manner by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition.
Mr SPEAKER: I am afraid the position is unbecoming to both members concerned.
Reference to an honourable member as an honourable member is normal. I heard but
turned my deaf ear in the direction from which the words "Old Punch Up" came. Likewise, I
thought I heard the term "yellow", but I was not sure of the connotation with which it was
used. I thought both were unbecoming and that both should be withdrawn. I now require
that both be withdrawn.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I withdraw.
Richard Walls: I am happy to withdraw.
Mr SPEAKER: Now, perhaps we can raise the level of the debate. [Interruption].
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has the floor and should
be allowed to proceed in silence; then perhaps there will be some improvement in the level
of the debate from both sides.
Richard Walls: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The member for Onehunga has made a
gesture which might be an appropriate and red blooded retribution to someone who used an
offensive term. In that context I would not object, but in this issue the member called my
attention to himself and made the gesture to provoke offence.
Mr SPEAKER: I did not hear it.
Richard Walls: You would not hear it.
Mr SPEAKER: I think we should forget the whole thing and get on with the debate.
Richard Walls: You would not see it unless you had your eyes on the member. He
specifically drew my attention to himself, and I suggest you ask the member to repeat the
gesture. It would be very difficult to record in Hansard.
Mr Prebble: The member for Dunedin North brought the matter on himself by sitting in
a seat other than his own, and by making derogatory remarks about the member for
Onehunga. No point of order was raised about that. The member for Onehunga made a
signal to the member for Dunedin North. It was the type of signal that the member for
Dunedin North, so it is rumoured, has been making to a number of demonstrators in
Dunedin. The member for Onehunga was drawing the attention of the member for Dunedin
North to his own behaviour at the weekend. It was all done in a very light-hearted manner.
The behaviour of the member for Dunedin North has been fully reported in the newspapers.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I am sure you listened closely to the member for Auckland
Central and that you perceive exactly what he is trying to do. I think it should be realised that
certain members are not entirely happy tonight, but that should not be permitted to lower
the standard of the proceedings in this Chamber. I think we should take your good advice—
Mr Courtney: You want to remember that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I think we can do without the comments of the member for
Nelson.
Mr Courtney: You want to remember that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: If the member says much more I will say a word or two about
him quick and lively. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! [Interruption.] Order! When I say “Order" I expect members to
desist from mutual interjections, particularly from someone who does not even have the
floor.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I am making a plea to the member on his feet, and to members
on both sides of the House, to get back to the purpose for which we are here.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Speaking to the point of order, Mr Speaker, the Prime Minister
makes a plea to me, the member on his feet, to get back to the debate. I was making a
speech. What happened was the result of intervention by one of his own members. This is
simply being used as a tactic to break up my speech. I will be quite happy to get back to my


## p. 1785 (#241) ###########################################

2 August
1785
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
speech, despite the irrelevancies from members opposite, and particularly those from the
member for Dunedin North, who, in occupying a certain seat, is causing part of the trouble.
Hon. Allan McCready: What about the member for Nelson?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: He is there acting as a Whip.
Mr SPEAKER: The seat occupied by a member, if it is not his own, is of little
importance, unless it has obviously been changed for the purpose of facilitating interjection.
I cannot think that a member sitting about 12 feet from his normal seat and about 8 feet
nearer to the member speaking would make any difference, nor do I think it would have any
effect on the course of the debate. I regret the level of the debate. On the question of making
a signal, well, we did that in the Navy. What it means in this context I do not know, and I
should prefer not to investigate. All members should consider the situation, endeavour to
remain silent, and listen to the balance of the honourable member's speech, whether they
agree with him or not.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I want to summarise the point that was interrupted, that almost
everything given in this Budget is deferred, and almost everything taken is collected now. I
have already said that the single-income family receives nothing until after the end of this
financial year. The tax on clothes dryers goes on immediately, but there is no alternative
source of heating by which a mother can dry the clothes she needs until the Maui gas comes
ashore in about 2 years. Student bursaries do not go up until next year, but the extra charges
imposed on students through inflation and by other means still apply.
The charges on beer and spirit drinkers as well as tobacco smokers have already been
applied, and to a greater extent than was indicated in the Budget. The Budget stated that
there would be an increase of 1c on an ordinary glass of beer, but the publicans say, "No, we
have something else to put on." We were told that there would be 1c on a nip of spirits, but
the list I have here of prices in private and lounge bars shows that only for bourbon and
vodka has the price been increased by 1c. Most prices have risen by 2c or 3c. If they had risen
by only 1c, $18 million would have been collected, but the expenditure for which this
increase was supposedly the justification is not even $5 million. I should like Government
members to tell me how they can justify this increase. The Minister of Health was very proud
of his paternity of this charge, and said that extra community health costs would be met by
this source of revenue.
Hon. T. F. Gill: And we are going to spend it.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: We're going to spend it, are we?
Hon. T. F. Gill: We are.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Most of it will meet the increase in the ordinary Health vote.
Hon. T. F. Gill: That's not correct.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The Minister will have a chance to justify this, but, as it appears in
the estimates, about $5 million will be spent on community health, and $18 million will be
taken by way of increased charges and indirect taxation.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Haven't you heard of the supplementary estimates?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Oh, the supplementary estimates. It's the old story of not telling us
the whole truth, but keeping a little back for later. I shall leave it to the Minister of Health to
explain what he is doing.
I want to go back to the basic point of the 1976 Budget and the way it is contradicted by
this year's Budget. Last year the Government said it had four purposes: to combat inflation,
to deal with the internal deficit before borrowing, to deal with the external deficit on the
current account, and to cope with unemployment. I suggest that this Budget does nothing
except cope with the Prime Minister's obsession with the internal deficit. Everything else
rotates around this obsession to prove that some of the things he said in 1975 were justified.
Every success he has in that area makes inflation worse because he could not reduce
taxation, and makes unemployment worse because if the Government spends less there are
fewer jobs, and its expenditure is somebody else's income. It does not touch on the problem
of the external deficit, and contains only pious promises of assistance to exporters.
Returning to the first point, I suggest that this Budget cannot be carried through unless
inflation continues at the same rate or at a higher rate than it has for the past year.
Everybody is aware of the appalling record of the Government in the last 3 months, when
the consumer price index rose by 4.8 percent. The Government has shed crocodile tears, and
said things will be better next time; but there is nothing in the Budget that will make them
better next time. Personal income tax has not been reduced, but the ability of people over 60
years of age, who have plenty of money, to go on spending that money has been
underwritten. And what are they spending it on? They spend it on new motorcars and


## p. 1786 (#242) ###########################################

1786
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
holidays, and the Budget does nothing to restrain them. It provides $930 million for national
superannuation, against a total outlay of about $600 million under all the headings that were
relative to that last year-old age benefits, universal superannuation, and the short period of
national superannuation. That one item has been increased by $330 million, and the
Minister, who has been chided as the first billion-dollar Minister in New Zealand's history,
now by this one move becomes the $1.5-billion Minister.
Social welfare, which cost more than $1 billion in the last financial year, now costs about
$1.5 billion, but the extra does not go to the people who need it. It goes, under national
superannuation, to people who cause trouble for the Government by spending their money
on overseas trips and new motorcars, which is unnecessary expenditure because they do not
need the extra money. Under the Labour Government, any person in need received
supplementary assistance in addition to the age benefit. The obsession with the deficit before
borrowing tells us something about the character of the Minister of Finance. It shows that he
is not really concerned with financial affairs, but obsessed with proving himself right.
Mr Comber: He won't leave a $1 million deficit.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I hear a little fellow with a deep voice. I do not know where he gets
it from, but he certainly cannot find any facts to go with the deep voice. We get these
interjections all the time—
Mr SPEAKER: The Deputy Leader of the Opposition will suffer interjections all the
time if he refers to an honourable member as a little fellow with a deep voice. I suggest he
withdraw that expression. I will not say he should apologise, but I suggest he refrain from
referring to members in the way he has a number of times tonight, and not at any time use
the expression "a little fellow" to describe a member of this House.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am happy to withdraw it, and say "the honourable member with
the deep voice".
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: The bullfrog.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Well known as the bullfrog from Wellington Central.
Mr SPEAKER: The honourable member will withdraw and apologise.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: If you require it, I will.
Mr SPEAKER: The Deputy Leader of the Opposition will withdraw and apologise
without qualification, not because I require it.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I apologise to the Chair. The National Government is obsessed
with justifying itself. The deficit before borrowing kept farmers on their farms, home buyers
in their homes, and people in their jobs; but the National Party was able to frighten a few
people, and it must go on talking about it. The Budget shows a tiny reduction in this so-
called danger point. It means nothing but an increase in unemployment, a reduction in the
housing vote, and a reduction in the vote for farm subsidies, all of which are mentioned in
the Budget. In other words, everything that has practical significance is written down, but
the Prime Minister's obsession is written up. He may have a few more triumphs, but not
many, because people see it all so clearly.
My colleague the member for Christchurch Central, the spokesman on agriculture,
referred to the fact that the Moneylenders Amendment Bill before the House will increase
the interest charged to farmers by stock and station agents. As soon as the member had
completed his speech he contacted a practical farmer, who quoted his experience. He had
purchased farm equipment valued at $3,000 and had received a bill for the equipment 2
weeks after it had arrived on his property. Before the bill was due to be paid it contained an
item of $18 for interest. The farmer objected, the charge was disputed and eventually
removed, but not before legal action had been threatened. Members opposite support the
stock and station agents. It is assumed that stock and station agents support the farmers,
because the Government is cutting down its direct contribution to the farmers. But, of
course, the Government parades itself as the farmers' friend.
The Government's action in increasing from 10 percent to 15 percent the interest limit
for a moneylender simply means that the farmer who does not know his rights will pay more.
That was the point made by my colleague the member for Christchurch Central. If members
opposite work out the interest on $3,000, that $18 for half a month is about 15 percent. The
stock and station agent had got it in for the farmer before the Budget was formally approved
in the House. That is the fate in store for many farmers in the community.
Mr Allen: Are you worried about the farmers?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am very worried about the farmers who are in hock to your
friends. The Labour Government introduced a requirement that the interest rate be 8
percent. The Labour Government received money, which was the deficit before borrowing,


## p. 1787 (#243) ###########################################

2 August
1787
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
from the Reserve Bank, and lent it to farmers through stock and station agents at 8 percent.
The contribution of this Government is a limit of 15 percent. I am sure the struggling farmer
will not be grateful for that assistance.
I now turn to housing. The basic interest charge for State house lending has increased
from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent. The next point I make is about the concessional rate.
Members opposite talk about the poor solo mothers. They will help the deserving mother,
but will pick on the mother who has uncle visiting, and imply that every solo mother has an
uncle visiting. At present the only person who can obtain a 3 percent loan is the solo mother.
Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei): The speech of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was a
disappointing example for a first-term member to follow. It was a totally negative and
destructive performance. It is absolutely staggering that a member with such an abysmal lack
of understanding and knowledge of finance was the Minister of Finance for more than a
year. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition criticised the Government's handling of the
internal deficit. He referred to the obsession the Minister of Finance has with the internal
deficit. He is probably jealous, because he could not match the performance.
The Labour Government did not understand finance. We know the causes of inflation,
which are fairly simple, and the Labour Government fell into every trap. From thousands of
well-documented cases, an American professor of economics, who has made a lifetime study
of inflation, has stated that there has never been a prolonged period of general price inflation
that was not preceded by and directly related to a growth in the money supply. The Labour
Government ran large deficits, and financed a portion of those deficits by printing new
money or using Reserve Bank credit; it entered the money market competing against private
citizens for goods and services. It drove up demand faster than production could grow, and
in the process increased prices. That is exactly what the Labour Government did; it followed
that pattern.
That policy is very closely related to excessive Government spending. The Deputy
Leader of the Opposition has criticised the Government for attacking excessive Government
spending. He has not recovered since he lost the Tamaki seat. As a senior member of the
House, he is looking over his shoulder to 1978 when he will make the decision about whether
to stay or go. His performance tonight was sour and bitter, and the level of the House was
lowered by a disillusioned man. He resorted to personalities, and his remarks were in poor
taste. The reason is obvious. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition has some intelligence,
but he said nothing constructive in criticising the Budget.
He spoke about bursaries. There is no evidence that any student has had to leave
university because he cannot finance himself. I asked representatives from Victoria Univer-
sity to give me specific evidence that any student has had to leave because of financial
hardship, but no evidence was produced. That is not to say that they do not find themselves
in difficulties. Prices have risen and the cost of living is higher-no thanks to the previous
Labour Government. Tertiary students are doing well, and in most cases students accept that
they should not receive a living wage or the equivalent of the unemployment benefit. They
should not receive the cost-of-living increases as of right, because the bursary is meant to
supplement the money they earn from working during the year and in their holidays. Most
students accept that as a general principle.
The Evening Post has the wrong information about the protest march scheduled for
tomorrow. The students do not know what they are marching about, and they give wrong
figures and make inaccurate statements. The article in tonight's Evening Post states, "Next
year's increase will apply only to the out-of-town allowance." That is not true. It does not
apply only to the out-of-town allowance, which goes up by $2 a week next year. The students
do not know what they are marching in protest about tomorrow. The Minister of Education
has listened carefully to the students and other people interested in education. He has acted
fairly. Because of what he has done for education, he is being freely tipped by people in
education as having the potential to be the greatest Minister of Education the country has
seen since Peter Fraser. I shall say more about education later.
I refer in passing to the nasty comment made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition
about my colleague the member for Invercargill. He said, "Limpy boy, limpy boy will be
there." That is another personal attack that I regard as very undesirable indeed.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition also had a flurry at farming. He was the one who
told farmers to stop whingeing and start working. He spoke about tax relief, and said there
would be no relief until next year. That is wrong. The new and increased rebates will be
allowed in full for the year ending 31 March 1978. In other words, they will be retrospective
to 1 April 1977. That was an inaccurate statement from a failure Minister of Finance. He


## p. 1788 (#244) ###########################################

1788
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
questioned the superannuation scheme, and I hope that national superannuitants were
listening to him. Would he reintroduce the means test in the unlikely event that Labour ever
becomes the Government again? Our scheme is popular, it is fair, and it is a damn sight
better than Labour's scheme. A person earning $82.72 pays $45 back in tax, so that those
who are getting double superannuation and have other earnings as well pay a large whack
back in tax, which is fair and as it should be. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition is sad, he
is disillusioned, and he is coming to the end of the road.
The Budget is a first-class document, and the Opposition is having extreme difficulty in
debating it. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition did not mention the energy package, the
fishing package, or the transport package. These are positive and constructive proposals by a
Government that knows where it is going, but the Deputy Leader of the Opposition chose
not to comment on or criticise them.
The Budget is first class for several reasons. First, it is deflationary. The Government
has set about repairing the damage it inherited from the previous Government. The
improvement in Government finances is of vital concern, and Government expenditure,
which was 41 percent of the gross national product in the last year of the Labour
Government, has been reduced to approximately 36 percent of the gross national product. I
feel sure it will be reduced further by succeeding National Governments. Most of the growth
this year is a result of necessary increases in social services expenditure and pay increases for
State servants. The deficit before borrowing of more than $1,000 million has been reduced to
$382 million, to be borrowed to finance net expenditure. As other speakers have said, it is
still too high, but it will be improved in succeeding years. At no time did we say that we
would balance the budget at any price, and I sincerely hope we will never do that.
We are concerned about people. We are concerned about employment prospects, the
old, the young, the sick, and the underprivileged. Let us look at the old. We have introduced
the national superannuation scheme, and they love it. Let us look at employment prospects.
The level of unemployment has remained manageable at a difficult time and, to help
employment difficulties in Whangarei and eight other areas, the Government has introduced
a private sector subsidy scheme, a very good scheme indeed, under which the Government
pays one-third of the wages of a young employee, and the private employer pays the other
two-thirds.
The scheme was introduced last year in Whangarei and Gisborne and has proved very
successful. It has helped to get many young people on to the first rung of the employment
ladder, and to give them some dignity, some feeling of self-worth. More than 100 people
took part in the scheme, and the Government has extended it this year to a number of other
places around New Zealand. Many people have said to me—and I am sure other members
have heard it, too-that it is much better for a young person to be doing useful work rather
than collecting unemployment benefit and doing nothing for it. The Government has
introduced a scheme that restores some dignity, some feeling of self-worth, to young people
who are finding difficulty in getting employment, particularly around Whangarei, where the
level of unemployment has been too high for some years.
Next, let us look at the young. Earlier, we heard the Minister of Education talking
about the imaginative and comprehensive early childhood education package announced in
the Budget. Then we come to the sick, and the amount voted for health, including
community health, has gone up by about $200 million this year.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Don't tell Rob.
Mr ELLIOTT: The Minister of Finance was not listening, so the Minister of Health will
be able to get away with it. It is very pleasing to see the improvements in the health field. In
Northland, there have been sound and progressive extensions to the base hospital at
Whangarei. I am thankful for the progress of that hospital, and for the general expenditure
on health in Northland. The last group I mentioned was the underprivileged. More than $1
million in benefits goes into Whangarei each week. About 520 receive the domestic purposes
benefit. One person in three in Whangarei receives a benefit of some kind, which speaks
volumes for the way we treat the underprivileged in our community. So there we
are-employment, the old, the young, the sick, and the underprivileged are helped in my
electorate of Whangarei and throughout New Zealand.
The Budget is also a first-class document because of its excellent proposals in other
areas, especially energy, fishing, regional development, transport, and education. There are
others, but those I have mentioned are the pick of them. The Budget has been enthusiasti-
cally received in Whangarei, and I should like to give some specific reasons for this. First,
Northland Community College is to be established in Whangarei, and will commence on 1


## p. 1789 (#245) ###########################################

2 August
1789
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
April 1978. Many sections of the community regard this as an extremely desirable develop-
ment. Many people, not only those who are directly involved in education, look forward to
the courses in technical and community education that will be available next year. I am
happy to tell the House that, as a result of discussions I have had with the Department of
Education, both at its head office and at its regional office in Auckland, plans for the college
are well advanced. Secondly, the Budget was enthusiastically received in Whangarei because
of the restoration of the 30 percent top priority for regional development suspensory loans
for Whangarei City. That was warmly greeted, not only by the Northland Regional
Development Council, of which I am a member, but also by people throughout the city.
Thirdly, the Budget was enthusiastically greeted in Whangarei because of the 40 percent
suspensory loan the Government has allowed on fishing vessels built by New Zealand
shipbuilding yards. I do not need to go into any more detail other than to say that the
proposal has been warmly greeted throughout Whangarei and Northland. The spin-off
effects that will result from contracts going to Whangarei are well known by subcontractors
and employers throughout Northland. The next reason is the addition of blackberry to the
weed control subsidy list, which the Northland members were very keen to see, and I know
that the member for Hobson will join me in thanking the Government for adding blackberry
to the list.
I remind the House that, although Whangarei is now a city of 35 000 or 36 000 people,
30 percent of my electorate is still rural, and Whangarei is still largely a farming service-
centre, and will remain so for many years. Add to those all the excellent provisions that
apply to people throughout New Zealand, and not just to the fine people of Whangarei, and
the Budget was very welcome indeed.
The Opposition has appeared less than enthusiastic in debating the Budget, and we
heard earlier what happened when the Leader of the Opposition opened the debate. I shall
not repeat the comments of the honourable member who alluded to that, other than to say
that I would not have called what he said a tuneful lullaby. The transport package is
excellent, and represents action after the leaden-footed efforts of the Labour Party. Do
Labour members agree with the measures? We do not know yet. Speakers opposite have not
told us whether in fact the Labour Opposition agrees with the transport package. We see the
member for Timaru waiting in the wings, and we shall be listening with interest to what he
says about this package. I hope that the member for Timaru can make some constructive and
positive comments about it.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Always constructive, and always positive.
Mr ELLIOTT: We shall wait and see whether they are. It is not surprising that
Opposition members cannot decide whether they support it. They had four Ministers and an
Under-Secretary, all of whom fiddled around, did nothing, and were not able to agree. It
was no surprise, because one of the four was the member for Manukau, the whizz kid from
Manukau, who was involved in housing, broadcasting, superannuation, the baby
bonus-what else was he involved in?—all the things that failed, the member for Manukau
was involved in. He was one of the four involved in transport. The transport package in the
Budget is carefully and thoroughly put together, and is a triumph for the Minister of
Transport, whom I congratulate. I am delighted with the relaxation of the restrictions on the
regional development programme announced by the Minister of Regional Development.
Whangarei City has been restored to the top-priority bracket of up to 30 percent of
qualifying expenditure for suspensory loans for manufacturing projects. As well as this, the
once-only rule for suspensory loans has been relaxed. This is welcome, because in a priority
regional development area like Whangarei or Northland, a small concern gets going, gets
some assistance from the regional development programme, and then wants to go a little
further. However, until now, it has not been able to get further assistance. We believe that it
should grow in steps and stages, and should be able to receive assistance a second third, or
fourth time. This will be possible under the policy announced by the Minister of Regional
Development. A company will be able to grow, diversify, and undertake its development in
phases where appropriate, without prejudicing the assistance it gets in the first stage.
A grants scheme has also been established, and production and marketing costs of
manufacturing and processing projects in high-priority regions like Whangarei and other
slow-growth areas will be able to receive a grant up to $10,000, subject to prior approval, and
paid as reimbursement of expenses. The Minister said that the new measure implements a
specific proposal outlined in the manifesto, and we are grateful for it in Whangarei. It will
enable commercial feasibility studies, tooling up, manufacturing trials, and the like, which
for a small company that is getting established, are expensive to set in motion before any


## p. 1790 (#246) ###########################################

1790
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
revenue comes in from sales. Another regional development scheme that is welcome in the
north is the pioneer status scheme. Of course, many pioneers came from the north, including
some of my great-grandparents. The Minister, when enlarging on the Budget announce-
ment, said that capital assistance for qualifying expenditure on new forms of commercial
resource development will be allowed in priority regions. The Regional Development
Council in Northland will be making suggestions to the Minister for pioneer status projects,
particularly in the processing of renewable resources and other forms of manufacturing and
processing activities. I am pleased to see this regional development package in the Budget.
Tourism is booming in Northland, and provides tremendous benefits right across the
area, especially in the towns, and particularly in Whangarei City. Tourists in Northland over
the holiday period totalled 133 000 in 1966; last year the total was 285 000. In 1966, a quarter
of a million tourists came to Northland; last year, there were three-quarters of a million. In
terms of funds to Northland tourism brought in $2.5 million over the Christmas period of
1966, but $12 million for the same period last year. For the calendar year 1976, almost three-
quarters of a million tourists spent an estimated $21 million in Northland.
This is of considerable benefit to Northland, but it helps mainly the cities and the towns.
It is not so good for the farmer, who has to pay the rates to supply the services for these
tourists. The Whangarei County Council last year spent $80,000 on collecting rubbish, most
of which came from tourists. Northland, and particularly the coast outside Whangarei, has
become a playground for Auckland. The counties and municipalities in Northland have to
maintain their roads and essential services, and I believe it is time that something was done
to help the local bodies to finance these things, which are not always for the benefit of their
own citizens, but for the benefit of tourists. The farmer paying his rates is not always
recompensed for the cost of tourism. One way in which this could be done would be to
declare several key Northland roads as tourist roads, and fund them accordingly. I suggest
that the road from Whangarei to Matapouri, the Russell road, and the Whangarei to
Whangarei Heads road should be declared tourist roads.
The Government has responded magnificently to the challenge to expand our fishing
industry, and the ramifications of the 200-mile limit are very great. We must grow rapidly to
harvest as much as possible of the resources of the fourth-largest fishing zone in the world.
The suspensory loans for fishing boat construction are of particular relevance to the north.
Suspensory loans of up to 40 percent of the approved construction costs of certain fishing
vessels built in New Zealand will be available from the Rural Banking and Finance
Corporation as from 1 November 1977, and this is particularly important to Whangarei. The
scheme will not only encourage the construction of larger vessels in our shipyards, but will
also help to develop new fisheries. Whangarei has greeted this with enthusiasm.
I turn for a moment to planning, with particular reference to the Town and Country
Planning Act and district schemes. I am concerned at the application of the Town and
Country Planning Act, as exemplified by district schemes-in particular, the Whangarei
County district scheme. It worries me that about 90 percent of the people living at
Ngunguru, Tutukaka, and Matapouri have strong objections to parts of the district scheme. I
am extremely sceptical of the designation and zoning, which are based on need rather than
on what is wanted. There are still a few sections left in some of these areas. As they are not
built on, it is assumed that the sections are not needed. A person who buys a section is told,
"You cannot wait for 2 or 3 years, and then build, or give the section to your son or
daughter, or decide later what you will do with it. If you do not use it now, you do not need
it."
I consider this principle extremely dangerous, as in some areas it has reached the stage
where private landowners have no say in the use of their land. In some cases, it is said that
the land is not being taken directly by the Crown-although in some cases it is, and
inadequate compensation is being paid. It is argued that the use of the land is being restricted
in the public interest. We are playing right into the hands of extremists and left-wingers who
are posing as conservationists and environmentalists. I want to quote one of these people,
Professor John Morton, a Labour candidate and, many would say, a respected environmen-
talist. He states on page 113 of his book The Sea Coast in the Seventies: “I would not in
general wish to see land taken from farmers. We can afford to wait if the protection is
there." That is an ominous-sounding expression, which suggests to me that we are being
sucked in by socialists posing as environmentalists. On page 118, Professor Morton states:
"Different attitudes will be required of us as individuals.'
Mr Prebble: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I suggest that the present line of
attack-I think that is the proper word-used by the member for Whangarei against a person


## p. 1791 (#247) ###########################################

2 August
1791
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
outside the Chamber is certainly lowering the tone of the House, even though the member is
perhaps within the Standing Orders. He has put a number of labels on a very respected
member of the academic community at Auckland University. The member for Whangarei
mentioned that Professor Morton was a Labour candidate. However, in the past, he has also
been a Citizens and Ratepayers candidate. The member should refrain from labelling people
outside the Chamber who cannot defend themselves. I do not know Professor Morton's
political views. However, the book cited is not political, but is about conservation.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sure the honourable member knows his point of order is
not valid; he said so himself. The convention of the House is that members do not make
derogatory remarks about other members. However, there is no rule preventing members
from exercising their right of free speech by making whatever comments they think fit about
people outside the House. In doing so, of course, it is generally recognised that they should
exercise reasonable decorum and good taste. That is a matter on which I am not here to
adjudicate; it is one for honourable members themselves. I make it quite clear that the point
of order is not valid, in case other members have it in mind to interrupt another member's
speech in this way. It is not a matter I take lightly. The raising of points of order on these sort
of matters should not be encouraged.
Mr ELLIOTT: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker. I thought I had been a model of
propriety tonight. The last paragraph of Professor Morton's book states: "Different attitudes
will be required of us as individuals. We must be prepared to give up some of our cherished
freedoms, mainly selfish ones, in exchange for the wider and lasting freedom of our coastline
for all our people. We must be willing to be taxed for the privilege. The multiplication of
elaborate second homes, and highly powered boats, suggests an excess of private affluence
that could well be siphoned into the public sector." Such a statement is dangerous, and we
should be vigilant. The next step will be lakeside land, then mountains and flats, and then
the entire country will be publicly owned. As a member of the National Government, I
cannot support that situation; I will fight desperately to avoid it.
In conclusion, I should like to say that the education package was very pleasing. I
mentioned earlier that the Minister of Education had been given credit throughout the
country. Mr Eagles, General Manager of the Auckland Education Board, wrote to the
Minister of Education on 14 July stating that the board was very pleased with the financial
position and with the building programme for 1977-78, and that it should write to the
Minister to convey its appreciation of his efforts in obtaining a realistic allocation for a large
and growing board. Mr Eagles said he wanted to thank the Minister personally for speaking
to the staff after opening the office officially, as that had been appreciated by the officers
present. That shows the attitude towards the Minister of Education, who will go down as one
of the great Ministers of that portfolio. The Government will continue to look at other areas
in education during the coming year, with a view to making improvements.
Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa): The 1977 Budget is a document of compelling
foresight. I can do no better than quote from an editorial in tonight's Evening Post, which
states: "There is no real substitute for a clear exposition of policies. Cliché-ridden diatribes
cut little ice. An example of the latter was Mr Rowling's response to the recent
Budget, when he failed to tell the country what Labour would have done in similar
circumstances." The Budget has five broad features: first, the attentiveness and sensitivity to
the specific needs of the individual, especially those at the lower end of the income spectrum;
secondly, the continuing encouragement to the base sector of the economy, especially
farming; thirdly, delineation of a broad strategy for fishing, a major potential growth area
which, until the National Government took office, was neglected; fourthly, a realistic
recognition that the energy crisis is a permanent landmark in the economic life of western
industrialised democracies. I was surprised last week when the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition questioned the seriousness of a matter put before the House, which concerned
the level of imported oil from OPEC nations. I tell the member that the National
Government is prepared to face the realities of the international energy crisis, which the
Labour Government failed to do.
The fifth feature of the Budget is its continuing adherence to the principle of restraint
and moderation in the Government's own activities. I remind the House and the country that
the deficit before borrowing the National Government inherited was an unprecedented
figure of $1,200 million, but that has now been reduced to $382 million. That, quite simply, is
the essence of the exercise. We are coming nearer to living within our income, which is what
we pledged to do. I contrast that with statements made by the former Labour member for
Waitemata in his fairly recent book about his own party's administration during 1972-75. He


## p. 1792 (#248) ###########################################

1792
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
said, "We had been elected as the bonanza Government." It was a bonanza Government
indeed. He went on to say, "The solution Tizard applied had its own hidden self-destructive
mechanism." We have heard much from the Deputy Leader of the Opposition tonight. We
now know what his former colleagues thought of his administration of the Finance portfolio.
Labour members are very good at making noises in Opposition, and especially good at
making noises about those persons in the community who have a particular need for
Government assistance. I suggest that the Budget is strong and humanitarian. It makes
provision for assistance to foster parents, children's homes, and intellectually handicapped
children, the imminent implementation of sections of the Disabled Persons Community
Welfare Act, and assistance to the Rehabilitation League-in particular, to make it possible
for the adjustment centre in Auckland to double its work load. The Budget is a strong social
document.
I want to translate its application into the terms of my own area, to refer particularly to
south Auckland, and specifically to the electorate I represent, because it is a microcosm of
New Zealand in its social and economic aspects. It is an area of explosive population growth,
of the equivalent of one average-sized street a week. The majority of the people are
essentially urban migrants of young average age. It is a multicultural community. It has a
small farming wedge and a growing industrial core. Many people travel to work from the
larger industrial bases to the north. The western areas of the electorate lie adjacent to the
Manukau Harbour, so there is a substantial and rich fishing zone. There is also a major
defence establishment in Papakura. Many people in the electorate are first-home owners or
first-home seekers. Already the relevance of the Budget to such a representative cross
section of New Zealanders will be apparent to the House.
I want to focus briefly on the young family man, the typical resident, who may be a
labourer or a factory worker. The Budget is of considerable assistance to such a person
because, with the young-family tax rebate and the single-income family tax rebate, the
average wage earner on $120 a week, including overtime, will pay only $13.72 in tax from
this year. That is a tax rate of 11.4 percent. Two years ago, under the Labour Government,
he was paying 18.2 percent. If his wife works, the family will benefit from the upward
movement of the wife rebate. Have the country and the Opposition forgotten the compul-
sory levy that would have been imposed on such a family had the Labour Government's ill-
fated superannuation scheme remained? It would have been costing the average taxpayer $3
a week this year. I remind the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that he deliberately
excluded married women from that scheme.
The Opposition has made much of Housing Corporation interest rates. We have heard a
lot about the increase of the prime interest rate from 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent. It is true that
the increase applies to people on an income of $8,320 and to people with two children on an
income of $8,840. Opposition members have not mentioned that for people on a wage of $85
or less the interest rate is 3 percent, for those on a wage of between $86 and $119 it is 5
percent, and for those on an income of between $120 and $160 it is 6.5 percent. In fact, the
interest rate for the average wage earner has been reduced by 2.5 percent. In accordance
with National Party policy, stamp duty has been eliminated on the purchase of a first home
or section. Again in accordance with the election policy, there is a tax rebate of $25 on
rates and that is about one-quarter of the average rate assessment for people in my
electorate. People on very low incomes still qualify for the rate relief scheme.
Three Opposition members-the Leader of the Opposition, the member for Avon, and
the member for Wigram-have made much noise about the plight of the family man. Let me
tell them that in south Auckland my people can see some light. They realise that, despite the
country's economic difficulties, they are not the forgotten people they were under the
Labour Government. Members opposite know that they have been taken over by the
middle-class intellectuals, and now embrace a philosophy of democratic socialism. Even
their leader acknowledged that it was a gigantic step backwards.
In an electorate such as Manurewa and region such as south Auckland, there is much
interest in education facilities and services. I have met people who work in the pre-school
service in my electorate, and I can tell the House and the Minister of Education of the
warmth with which the provisions for early childhood education have been received, with
their imaginative use of primary school accommodation and the suggestion for mobile pre-
school units. That is a thoughtful and original deployment of slender resources, and it will
directly benefit 8000 3-to 5-year-olds this year.
I was intrigued to hear the mini-speech made by the member for Henderson last week.
For a brief and fleeting moment he talked about what he imagined was the neglect of west


## p. 1793 (#249) ###########################################

2 August
1793
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Auckland. He has been the member for that region for many years,so he should know all
about it. But the National member for Waitemata put the record straight this afternoon. As
the member for Henderson opened up the subject of Government neglect of certain
Auckland regions, let us look at south Auckland. For varying periods the area was
represented by the Labour members for Otahuhu, Mangere, Manukau, and, until 1975,
Manurewa―all at one time Cabinet Ministers. Although there was a population explosion in
the late 1960s and early 1970s, no concerted or integrated attempt was made to provide or
update essential services in the area-the sort of people-centred things that members
opposite talk so loud and long about from the comfort of the Opposition benches. Politically,
they took the area for granted. Their approach to the needs of the area bore no relation to its
requirements or reasonable demands.
I shall illustrate this. By December 1975 there was chaos in the health services. There
was no real plan, although a plan was needed in the light of two particular developments.
The first was the population explosion; the second the influx of our neighbours from the
Pacific Islands. The region demanded a review of the health services provided, but no
serious consideration was given. I pay tribute to the Auckland Hospital Board and Dr Frank
Rutter, its Chairman, for the way in which the board is now-backed, supported, assisted,
and encouraged by the Minister of Health-facing up to the challenge the region offers.
Much credit must go to the Minister of Health for the series of visits he has paid to south
Auckland to discuss with Dr Rutter and Dr John Jeffrey, the District Medical Officer of
Health, ways in which the Government can best assist, and to bring the two together in some
sensible arrangement. The result has been two-fold. First, there has been a realistic
assessment of the health needs of one-fifth of a million people—that is the number we are
talking about in south Auckland. As a result of that assessment, some action has already
been taken. For example, in the last few months approval has been given for the acquisition
of land for the construction of general hospitals in east Tamaki and Papakura. Each hospital
will contain 300 acute general beds, a 120-bed geriatric unit, and a 20 to 40-bed obstetric
unit, plus accident and emergency departments, and the usual supporting clinical depart-
ments. In addition, the Auckland Hospital Board has opened a base at Middlemore Hospital
for extramural services, which it intends to expand into the south Auckland area. The aim of
the National Government, in co-operation with the Auckland Hospital Board, is to
decentralise services so that health is taken to the community. There is no better vehicle for
doing that than an extension of Auckland's extramural services.
Approval has been given to acquire land in the Manukau City centre to build a health
centre. Indeed, the purchase of land adjacent to the city centre shopping mall is being
negotiated, and planning is proceeding. That centre will be built by the Department of
Health, and the people of south Auckland are deeply indebted to the firm guidance,
leadership, and assistance provided by the Government and the Minister. The centre will be
manned by doctors and allied health professionals, and will specialise in community care. In
addition to the initial health centre, there will be further decentralised health centres in the
southern parts of the region.
In December 1975, the south Auckland district office of the Department of Health was
run down, and staff morale was poor. It was a neglected area. The present Minister has
increased the nursing establishment by 10, 6 of whom have already been recruited and are
operational, and some of them are working in schools in the area. There has been major
restructuring. Health services in the region have had a shot in the arm and are at the take-off
point. What did the Labour Government do in the area; why were such radical measures
required so urgently; and why were there three or four visits by the Minister of Health in
such a short time? Because of the neglect of the region by the local Labour members of
Parliament-the members for Otahuhu, Mangere, Manukau, and Manurewa. It ill behoves
the member for Henderson to enter the House, wailing and gnashing his teeth about neglect.
The people of south Auckland have known for years all about neglect, and they know where
the responsibility lies.
I illustrate that by turning to the transport provisions in the Budget. As the House well
knows, they provide for the expenditure of $44 million over 4 years for replacing rolling
stock on the suburban railway lines in Wellington and between Auckland and Papakura.
That is a major social measure. What has happened in the southern corridor is a revitalisa-
tion of an underutilised line. That will mean much for the average bloke, the average family
man, the person members opposite say much about but do little for. He needs some
reasonable form of public transport to get to work. Now, he will be able to leave the family
car at home. This will free his wife, give her greater mobility, and break down that sense of


## p. 1794 (#250) ###########################################

1794
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
isolation that has crept into the new mass housing subdivisions in Auckland. The southern
corridor has suffered from years of neglect. I want it recorded that the people of south
Auckland, judging from the response I have received, are grateful to the Minister for his
action, are grateful for his visit to the area in November last year, and are grateful to the
caucus committee, chaired by the member for Marlborough, and for that committee's visit to
Papakura, Papatoetoe, and Otahuhu last year.
The restructuring of the urban rail passenger transport system is a vital move for the
social and economic health of our urban communities; and I remind the House and the
country that the Labour Government had 3 years to do something about this. I well
remember that last year the member for Timaru, the former Minister of Transport, having
been defeated and thrown out, came back to the area and said, "You have got a rail
problem. If you elect us in 1978, we will put it right." But the people have not forgotten his
neglect of his portfolio between 1972 and 1975. In fact, the Labour Government had three
Ministers with responsibility for transport-a Minister of Transport, a Minister of Civil
Aviation, and a Minister of Railways—and an Under-Secretary to boot, the present member
for Grey Lynn, the next member for Auckland Central. It even got the member for
Manukau in on the act; he wrote a paper, but it was thrown out. So in 3 years, four Cabinet
Ministers and one Under-Secretary drew a circle. That was the sum total of their efforts, and
the people of south Auckland have not forgotten nor will they forget. We will not let them
forget it.
The revitalisation of the south Auckland suburban line has given the area as a whole a
massive injection of confidence. At the moment, three senior members of the Railways
Department are overseas, and they will shortly be reporting to the general manager on the
type of carriage and rolling stock. After this, tenders will be called world-wide on a design-
and-build basis. At the same time, a survey has been made of station buildings and other
facilities, and plans drawn up for renovation and renewal of these. Some maintenance work
is already in hand. It will be an on-going programme, and commuter travel in south
Auckland will be more attractive and comfortable; although there will be no great change in
the speed or frequency of the present services, people will get a fair deal. That is the essence
of the 1977 Budget. That is all New Zealanders ask for, and it is all they have ever asked for.
That is what they are getting, and what they did not get between 1972 and 1975.
I have referred to the population explosion in south Auckland, and this makes
education of vital importance. Many changes faced the Minister of Education when he
assumed his portfolio. He knows the deep concern of the Auckland Education Board, which
was expressed to him in December 1975 and January 1976. He had to make an emergency
visit to the area in 1976. Who was the former member? None other than the Labour Minister
of Education. The present Minister knows, and so do the people of Manurewa and south
Auckland, of the race against time to build, for example, Roscommon Road primary school
in 11 months, to cater for a projected new role increase of 1100 pupils, and of the need to
commission two new high schools quickly.
I was delighted that the member for Whangarei mentioned a portion of the letter from
the General Manager of the Auckland Education Board to the present Minister. I want to
quote that again. Mr Eagles said, "At the conclusion of our recent discussion it was resolved
that I should convey the members' appreciation to you for your efforts in obtaining what is a
realistic allocation for a large, growing board." We are talking about one in every four New
Zealanders. "The progress that will now be made in overcoming the backlog of replace-
ments, remodellings, and libraries, etc, will I am sure impress the organisations interested in
these particular categories, and it will in turn effectively silence complaints so often heard
that Auckland was not receiving its share of educational finance." That is a glowing tribute,
and deserved after 3 years of neglect. The Labour Party should stand condemned for its
cynical neglect of New Zealand's fastest-growing urban region.
In conclusion, there are wider considerations in this debate; and I have been dealing
primarily with urban matters. I suggest to the House that the city is the future habitat of 8 out
of every 10 New Zealanders. It was President Kennedy who said, "We neglect our cities to
our peril." The former Labour Government did. It neglected New Zealand's largest city
flagrantly, unashamedly, and blatantly, because it thought the area was politically safe. We
should become more sensitive to the shaping, moulding, and nurturing of our urban
environment, especially in its social aspects and in the critical, people-centred areas such as
health, education, and transport. I believe that in the future and for the future the
Government, in consultation with local authorities, will have to take the broadest possible
view of the structure our cities take.


## p. 1795 (#251) ###########################################

2 August
1795
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
The National Government has illustrated in the 1977 Budget, and in particular in the
administration of its health and transport responsibilities, that it has moved closer to local
authorities. I am referring to the various visits Ministers in the National Cabinet have made
to different areas. They have consulted with local authorities, sought information and
advice, and solicited comment, showing the proper harmony in consultation that should exist
between central and local government. There may well have to be an even closer integration
in the future of these and other portfolios in which the responsibilities bear so heavily on the
urban environment. I suggest that there is a logical connection between the portfolios of
housing, social welfare, health, and education. I believe that in the future we may have to
see our main cities, and Auckland in particular, in the same terms as regions or in a regional
development context-but, of course, for different reasons, because they are certainly not
slow-growth regions.
Well, that is in the future-a future in which I have complete confidence, for the
National Government's Budget has demonstrated two basic things. The first is the
concern-and, if I may say so, a manly concern-for people in all walks of life, and
especially for the average family man, for the average wage earner, and for the person just
below that average. I enjoin members opposite to look at the fine print, and to think again
before they criticise the Government's record in the people-centred areas, where it has
demonstrated a realistic concern. The Budget also demonstrates a responsible continuation
of our policy of restraint, but without sacrificing the need to continue forward planning of
the economic base. That is the essence of the Budget. I am pleased to say in the House
tonight that I am proud to belong to the National Government, which is doing the basic
things-the economic things and the people-centred things, and the two are interrelated—in
difficult times, supremely well.
Dr WALL (Porirua): It is a little disappointing to follow the member for Manurewa.
The only thing he could talk about was the disastrous situation produced in south Auckland
by 12 years of National administration. He spoke of the problems there as though they had
developed overnight. Anyone with the slightest familiarity with urban development, particu-
larly on the scale that has occurred in southern Auckland, would realise that all the problems
of the area arose in the middle 1960s, and that they came about through lack of foresight 5 or
6 years before.
It was most significant that the member for Manurewa should speak about health
developments in the area. I could not help contrasting them with those that took place
during the period of the former Labour Government in my own area, which is somewhat
similar to that represented by the member for Manurewa. At that time, the Porirua area was
in a desperate situation because of a lack of adequate medical facilities. Within 3 months of
the Labour Party's becoming the Government, new facilities were provided for medical
services in Porirua, and within 18 months a health centre had been opened. The National
Government has now been in office for the same time span, but it is now only talking about
plans and buying land for two hospitals. How many people will be treated through those
plans this year? The Minister of Health even visited the area-the big event! How many
people did he treat while he was there? The former Labour Government established a health
centre in 18 months, but in that period the National Government has bought some land. The
member for Manurewa and this House, should face up to reality.
Tonight we heard a great deal about all the forward moves made by the Government in
health and education during the last year. The big claims made about the Government's
success and advance in its Budget were over the restoration of provisions that were already
in existence when the National Government took office, but which were wiped last year. The
member for Whangarei referred to the satisfaction with which Whangarei residents learned
that cuts in regional development had been restored. Apparently, the big advance was to
revert to the status quo that existed when the Labour Government was in office. Apart from
talking about the restoration of cuts made last year in Labour's policy, the member for
Whangarei could talk only about blackberry's being declared a noxious weed. That will be a
great help to the parks and reserves department in Whangarei. I listened with considerable
interest to the only Minister on his feet tonight, the Minister of Education.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: And a good Minister, too.
Dr WALL: Yes, a good Minister. We heard some very exaggerated praise of him
tonight. A measure of his goodness was the comparison with a Labour Minister of
Education, Peter Fraser. Labour's advance in education becomes the criterion of perfection
for the present Government. I was concerned to hear the Minister of Education following
the pattern-no, actually, he was leading the way for the junior members to follow-and


## p. 1796 (#252) ###########################################

1796
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
drawing attention to what he claimed were advances in his portfolio. But what he regarded
as his triumphs were again a continuation of developments begun by that outstanding
Minister of Education in the Labour Government, Phil Amos, whose furtherance of the
policy of pre-school education was set alight so effectively. The Minister gave the go-ahead
for three community colleges, after having stopped them last year. Again, the big success
story in this Budget is to go back and do what the Labour Government was doing at the end
of its term in office.
The Minister told us of his success in dealing with some anomalies and problems that
have arisen with the common tertiary bursary-problems caused by the financial policies of
his Government. Under the Labour Government, the common tertiary bursary was
adequate. The students were satisfied and they did not march on Parliament, but the erosion
of these bursaries-and we see in the Evening Post that students are again marching in
protest at the way the Government has eroded the benefit of the bursary-is leading to
unrest. Again, the criterion of perfection in education is to do what the Labour Government
was doing so effectively when in office. As I said earlier, the Minister is a good one, because
he is going back to doing what Phil Amos was doing as Minister of Education; but I am
concerned that the present Minister is not facing up to his responsibilities.
Rt. Hon B. E. Talboys: Don't talk nonsense.
Dr WALL: He is just not facing up to his real responsibilities. Over the last 20 years,
there has been a slow and very often unappreciated change in our social environment, which
has had revolutionary effects on both our present educational process and the needs which
that process is at present fulfilling so inadequately. We have witnessed a change from the
situation where only one parent in the average-sized family of three or four children needed
to work in order to maintain that family in reasonable comfort. The opportunity was there
for one parent to assist with and supervise the work being done by the schools. What
distractions there were were not as demanding as those in our present society-probably
radio was the main distraction in the home.
The social climate has changed, insidiously and progressively, and it is now obvious that
even though the Government has taken some steps to restore the financial means of coping
with this problem, which were being advanced so effectively by the Labour Government, it
has shown no signs of coming to grips with the real needs. The Labour Government made
the first move by arranging the Educational Development Conference, to see where we were
going and to obtain expressions of opinion. That conference produced a great deal of
information, but much more is coming in, even more rapidly, as our school system fails. An
example of the failure of our school system is shown in the report about drop-outs in this
morning's Dominion. Members might well say that the youths described there have failed,
but they should remember that it was a partnership between the education system and the
youths themselves. The youths are the victims, but were they necessarily the cause of their
own downfall? If the Minister wanted seriously to come to grips with his portfolio, he would
inquire into the situation that has developed.
I am informed by secondary school teachers, not only in my own area but in other areas,
that 20 percent of the children who present themselves for secondary education are not
prepared sufficiently by the lower-grade schools, whether intermediate or primary schools,
for them to benefit from the educational facilities provided by the secondary school system.
That was the figure given to me by responsible teachers in many places, and it is a
remarkably constant figure. We have only to consider the increasing numbers who emerge
from our schools quite inadequately prepared in the basic skills of academic learning, and in
reading, writing, and arithmetic. Years ago, it would have been considered a disgrace if any
child leaving primary school was not more than adequate in those basic skills, yet today it is
taken for granted that a large percentage of children will not have them. So secondary
schools, as a matter of routine, are now providing remedial teachers in those basic skills.
Why was this unnecessary 25 years ago, and why are reading specialists necessary today?
Hon. L. W. Gandar: They were not in the schools then.
Dr WALL: That is quite right, because the system at that time was coping adequately.
There was no need for those teachers.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Those people were not there.
Dr WALL: I am not blaming the Minister or this Government for the extent of the
failure, but I am blaming the Minister for not facing his responsibilities and doing something
about them. Many of the reasons for this are tied up in the structure of the education system
and in the manner of serving out education. The public should have been warned when the
name of the places where teachers are trained was changed from teachers' training colleges


## p. 1797 (#253) ###########################################

2 August
1797
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
to teachers' colleges. The obvious implication was that teachers were no longer being
trained, and I believe that was true. At about that time, those institutions stopped training
teachers and started educating people in education. I am not laying the blame primarily on
the Minister for what has happened, but he should be dealing with this for the future, he
should realise now that the teachers coming out of these educational institutions are not
trained to impart basic skills. I have received that message from senior and experienced
teachers throughout the country. They have repeatedly told me that those places have
ceased to be teachers' training colleges and are rightly named teachers' colleges.
As well, a system that is appropriate for the universities has moved down into the lower
areas of education. That is a system whereby people are given a mass of information and
diverse opinion to sort out, so that they can form their own judgment on it. That is quite
appropriate in an institution of higher learning; it is a proper function there, and the
discretion of what to accept or reject is left to the pupils, who by that time have reached a
degree of maturity and can benefit from such an approach. That approach has moved
increasingly down into the lower educational institutions, and is the basis of considerable
differences in educational philosophy. It is inappropriate that the eclectic approach should
move from the universities down in to secondary schools and now, increasingly, into primary
schools.
A pupil is given a variety of approaches and is left to choose what he will. We see this
most destructively in social education and in moral or ethical training, because the schools
are no longer prepared to give a firm, definite, and consistent line of guidance. A variety of
opinions are handed out for the students to take. Most members have been invited to speak
to liberal studies classes, and when we inquire what sort of people come to speak to them we
find that that approach is given in all sorts of fields. That applies even for quite young ages.
Students are given a variety of approaches on a variety of disputed social matters, and they
are quite unable to make discriminatory judgments. The only thing they really learn from
that approach is that the way they approach the subject does not matter, because no one will
say which of the various approaches is good or bad. They know they can have any approach
to social matters, to violence, to sex, and to promiscuity, because these are being handed out
by a multiplicity of lecturers who go to liberal studies classes. We are seeing this confusion
reflected in the young people emerging from our schools.
I am particularly concerned at the lack of appreciation of the difference between
education and training. This has had a destructive effect on the students in training colleges,
and increasingly it is presumed that, once a person is told about something and is taught its
basic skills, he knows how to do the job. I believe that a training programme that is repetitive
and teaches the rules appropriate for discipline is essential. It is not appreciated that training
has as important a part to play in education as has the imparting of information, but young
people are leaving school untrained in the social virtues, and unable to make moral and
socially valuable judgments.
Mr Elliott: What about the place of the home?
Dr WALL: The policies implemented by National Governments over the past 15 years
have made it increasingly impossible for this training to be given exclusively in the home,
because it is now necessary for both parents to work.
Miss Dewe: Teaching them morals is a home job.
Dr WALL: At last we have heard the story. The member for Lyttelton says that
teaching morals is the home's job. That philosophy is causing the trouble. The school is given
no part to play, and that is why violence in our streets is increasing, as is the number of
children the education system has failed.
Provision has been made for community colleges in three areas. When the Minister took
up his portfolio, another two community colleges were planned. They were scrapped last
year, and I am pleased this decision has been reconsidered. I believe that to a considerable
extent community colleges will be seen as "second chance" schools. Most people consider
them to be a second chance for the pupils, but I believe that they should be more correctly
regarded as a second chance for the teachers. The children for whom our education system
has proved inadequate will be able to attend these colleges, and the teachers will be able to
give them a second go. I am thinking particularly of people in the lower-income groups, and
it is unfortunate that this group includes so many people of Polynesian ancestry-whether
from the Maori community, or from the Pacific islands.
Great steps were made under the Labour Government, and some have been kept up
under the National Government, to cope with the disorientation these children feel by
introducing into our educational system a sense of the value of their cultural background.


## p. 1798 (#254) ###########################################

1798
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
That was a forward and imaginative step, and more should be done with it. If, by doing this,
anyone imagines they have coped with the cultural differences of the people brought up in
the marae system, whether in New Zealand or overseas, as against the cultural requirements
of the European community, they are sadly astray.
This matter was summed up by a deputation of Islanders, led by a remarkably intelligent
Cook Islander from my electorate, who visited the former Minister during the last few weeks
of the Labour Government. They said that one of the reasons they had come to New
Zealand was to promote the education of their children. The schools in the islands were
good, but the standard was not high enough. They were tremendously disappointed to find
that, after being used to an educational system in which children were made to learn, in New
Zealand the children were merely taught. One has only to think of the cultural background
of the marae to realise that such an approach to children promoted the feeling that they were
deserted, disappointed, and let down by our education system. In the marae tradition, every
adult caring for or associated with the children was seen in some way to be in loco parentis,
through the community of interest and the concern of the whole community. When the
Islanders sent their children to school, they expected the school to do exactly what the
parents would have done if they had had the opportunity and the expertise-to see that their
children learned. The education system has failed those children, and children from lower-
income groups, because it no longer sees that the children learn. It merely sees that the
children are taught.
Over the last 30 or 40 years, there has been a great move to remove all aspects of
compulsion from the learning process, and a tendency to promote discipline by attraction
rather than compulsion. Whilst this may be of benefit to those of an intellectual capacity,
who welcome and enjoy the whole education process, it fails those who do not view school
with such enthusiasm, and particularly children from homes where there has been no
continuing tradition of academic achievement and respect. That is the case for practically all
children from lower-income groups. These groups need the extra pressure of compulsion and
discipline imposed in the learning process, but they are being failed by our schools at
present. For this reason, schools are no longer compatible with the cultural background and
traditions of people involved in the marae culture. The schools are not fulfilling the
requirements of the Polynesian groups and the lower-income groups, where the children do
not have pressure put on them.
If pressure were applied to the children of poorer families they would achieve academic
success, whether they intended to achieve it or not. Peter Fraser introduced that characteris-
tic into the education system, and he has been lavishly praised tonight. We saw a tremendous
development of people from the lower-income groups, and their advance into the higher
academic echelons. That is no longer happening, because the development of the education
system has increasingly catered for the needs of the affluent, of those with a strong academic
tradition, and of those who have the means to provide the necessary support for their
children while they are at school. Until our educationalists face the fact that, under
changing, modern conditions, what is needed to make progress is to go back to the system
that supplied what is no longer available, we will achieve nothing. They must ensure that
children are not allowed to make judgments that may be destructive of themselves. The
schools must insist by discipline-imposed, if necessary, by force--that the children attain
some degree of academic excellence. Under that system the children of the poor did well;
under the present system they do not.
Mr BELL (Gisborne): I cannot help feeling a little sorry that I have the misfortune to
follow the soporific member for Porirua, although I did pick up some points from his speech
that are worthy of comment. Admittedly, I do not know Porirua very well, but I should be
interested in spending a little time there to find out what his constituents think of the doctor
situation, and what they thought of this in 1975. At the start of his speech, I felt that the
Porirua electorate was particularly well served with health services; perhaps there is one
more practising doctor available now in some other field.
The member for Porirua spoke at great length of problems in education. I do not think
what he said contributed much to the debate, but it sounded to me like an indictment of past
National Governments, and also of the past Labour Government. I heard nothing in his
speech of what the Labour Government had done to relieve the problems in the teaching
system he outlined. By coincidence, yesterday afternoon I met 30 teachers in the Gisborne
electorate, and I had an entirely different impression of their attitudes to the problems. I
took exception to one of the member's innuendoes. He spoke of the disadvantages faced by
Island children in our education system. He said that certain reforms introduced by the last


## p. 1799 (#255) ###########################################

2 August
1799
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Labour Government had been continued by the present Government, thus implying that
other reforms had not been continued. I should like the next Labour speaker to tell us which
reforms in the education of Island children this Government has done away with.
Mr Prebble: Name one new one.
Mr BELL: It has nothing to do with new ones. The member implied that existing ones
had been done away with. The member for Porirua made no mention of national superannu-
ation, and I commend him for that. I am sure that at the first post-Budget Labour Party
caucus, Labour members were instructed by their research unit to thump, and thump, and
thump the $930 million provided for national superannuation in the estimates. This is
certainly an increase of $816 million over the actual cost for the last financial year. No
Labour member has told us-and I am sure none will, so I must keep the record
straight-that the $159 million provided in 1976-77 for universal superannuation has not
been continued, and that the $326 million provided in the 1976-77 estimates for age benefits
has not been continued; no mention has been made of the fact that national superannuation
is taxable, and no provision has been made in Labour's analysis of the cost of national
superannuation for the tax take from that benefit.
Members opposite have not mentioned the ill-fated New Zealand superannuation
scheme, which is obviously their alternative; I remind the House that, had it continued, it
would have reached 2.5 percent of gross income this financial year. On an average wage of
$120 a week, this would have been a direct deduction of $3 a week, or $150 a year. With a
million or so people in the salary and wage force, there would have been an input from the
salary and wage earners of $150 million this year, rising to about $300 million by the time the
New Zealand superannuation scheme reached its full rate of deduction of 4 percent. In
addition, of course, employers would have found another $150 million. I challenge the next
socialist party speaker to tell the House and the country whether they would abolish national
superannuation and go back to the New Zealand superannuation scheme. Even if they do
not answer that, I think the answer is very clear by implication.
I was intrigued by the two earlier Labour speakers, the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition and the member for Christchurch Central; through both addresses, I was
wondering just which member was the spokesman on finance and which was the spokesman
on agriculture, because they both seemed to have a lick at both subjects. Some of the
comments of the Deputy Leader of the Opposition must be challenged. He said that all the
impositions or he called them impositions—in the 1977 Budget were applied immediately,
and all the relief in the Budget was some time in the never-never. I spent a couple of minutes
in looking through the Budget for this factor, and I should like to point out one or two of the
immediate or as-soon-as-possible reliefs and reforms the Government is to implement this
year.
First, we have the on-shore petroleum exploration, and we expect that the first well will
be spudded in in September 1977-which is not in the never-never. We have a $200 grant for
each new household service connection to natural gas, which was implemented from 21
July-Budget night. We have immediate increases in interest-free insulation loans from $300
to $400, with a longer repayment term.
The Waiau irrigation scheme is to begin this spring. The family taxation assistance,
which the Deputy Leader of the Opposition specifically mentioned as coming in some time in
the future, applies for the year commencing 1 April 1977; the new tax tables will be out for
use in 2 months' time, in the first October pay period. The depreciation limit on motorcars
applies throughout this income year, starting 1 April 1977. The duty-free importation of
fishing boats is an immediate provision. The suspensory loans for fishing boats commence on
1 November. So it goes on, and I have several pages of that.
On a more general note, I spent a little time in looking through the estimates at the
staffing rates of the 39 Government departments and ministries that have full staffing rates
listed. I found that the total of about 135 000 State employees listed in those estimates is just
919 fewer than the number was 12 months ago. This contrasts markedly with the extra 20 000
engaged in the Public Service during the Labour Government's 3 years in office. This is
positive evidence of the National Government's actions to reduce Government involvement
in people's lives.
The member for Christchurch Central said that Government speakers had so far
avoided the subject of agriculture. However, I am more than happy to elaborate on that
subject, as it appeared in the Budget, and to straighten out some of the misconceptions the
member put before the people this evening. He talked about the increased Rural Banking
and Finance Corporation lending limits, but did not mention the concessions available in the


## p. 1800 (#256) ###########################################

1800
2 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
early stages of borrowing. I shall present the true and factual picture. The interest rate has
been increased to 8.5 percent, the prime rate, to bring it more into line with current outside
levels. However, concessions have been introduced to ease the borrowing for
development-perhaps the member did not read that in the Budget. For the first 3 years, the
interest rate will be 6 percent, increasing to 7.5 percent in the fourth to sixth years. It is not
until the seventh year that anyone borrowing for development will face the current prime
interest rate of 8.5 percent. All land settlement mortgages and farm improvement borrowing
for the first 3 years will be at the reduced rate of 7.5 percent. For first farm purchases—and I
shall deal with these in greater depth later on-the rate of interest for the first 3 years will be
7.5 percent. The member for Christchurch Central said that mercantile firms would be
increasing their interest rates. However, I cannot look on that as any more than uninspired
guesswork. Perhaps he is the Opposition's spokesman on doom.
He said that the Government had not lowered the basic stock units in the stock incentive
scheme. I find that very difficult to understand—perhaps he cannot read the Budget. It is
very easy to quote a minimum. The member could have said that anyone with 10 stock units
would not gain anything from this reduction. I invite him to think about what constitutes an
economic sheep and cattle farm. I am sure he knows enough about agriculture to agree with
me that 1000 stock units—the figure he mentioned-do not constitute an economic unit in
this day and age. If a farm carries about 2500 stock units, the reduction of the qualifying
increase to 50 stock units equates with the initial minimum 2 percent increase requirement,
which is the other wing of the stock incentive scheme. That 2 percent requirement, which
previously covered 5000 stock units, has now been reduced by the minimum qualifying
increase to 2500 stock units.
The livestock incentive scheme introduced in the 1976 Budget has been very successful.
To the end of June this year, over 3300 applications had been received, resulting in a stock-
unit increase of 3 500 000. As New Zealand is carrying about 109 000 000 stock units, that
represents a 3.2 percent increase. I should like to compare that to the increase in the stock
unit numbers in the previous year, most of which was during the socialist Labour Govern-
ment's term in office. The increase in 1975 was only 0.066 percent. The stock incentive
scheme has given vital and effective encouragement to sheep farmers-and I remind
members opposite that the Labour Government encouraged farmers to kill their stock. I
would put that increase of 3.5 million stock units directly to the credit of the stock incentive
scheme. The Budget has adjusted the required increases in stock unit numbers, in terms of
developing carrying capacity, from the previous 2 percent a year for a 3-year programme to 2
percent in the first year-no change-to 1 percent in the second year, making a cumulative
total of 3 percent, and a further 1 percent for the third year, making a cumulative total of 4
percent, as against the required cumulative total of 6 percent when the scheme was
introduced. If a farmer with 3000 stock units opts for the cash option of $12 per stock unit,
that will net him a further 60 stock units over the 3-year period, or an extra grant of $720.
The farmers in the Gisborne electorate-and I am sure I am speaking for farmers
throughout New Zealand—were battered and bleeding from the complete lack of under-
standing and support shown by the Labour Government. One of the first policy undertakings
the National Government put into effect on taking office was the extension of the fertiliser
bounty. Straight away, the farming community responded to the attitude of the National
Government, and this is the result today—and do not forget that we have been in office only
a little over 18 months. The adjustments in stock-unit increases and qualifying stock units
have answered, in the main, the complaint of the smaller farmer, to whom the minimum of
100 stock units represented an increase of over 2 percent, and also of those farmers-and
fortunately New Zealand is well endowed with them-who had in the past achieved a high
level of production, but had found the 2 percent increase per annum for the 3-year period
difficult to achieve, without the further increase necessary to obtain a taxation or cash
benefit. The Government promised to review the scheme in the 1976 Budget. After a year's
experience, the review has been carried out; these two areas of mild criticism have been
answered.
The member for Christchurch Central made no mention of the very positive and
significant advantages to the farmer buying his first farm. The House will well remember the
farm ownership scheme and the strong encouragement and obvious support given in the
legislation for those contemplating farm purchase. The 1977 Budget has extended that initial
step by exempting the payment of stamp duty on the purchase of the first farm-and I
remind the Deputy Leader of the Opposition that that provision came into effect
immediately, on Budget night. The National Party's 1975 manifesto, which has been freely


## p. 1801 (#257) ###########################################

2 August
1801
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
quoted in some respects by Opposition members in the past 18 months, promised taxation
concessions to vendors who leave on mortgage less than half the purchase price of their
farms.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 1802 (#258) ###########################################

1802
3 August
Student Demonstration
WEDNESDAY, 3 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
STUDENT DEMONSTRATION
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I
want to comment on the student gathering in front of Parliament Buildings today. I
understand it was a protest against the Government's allocation of the tertiary bursary. The
specific point of order relates to the fact that when an Opposition member, the member for
Hutt, went to address the gathering—and it is customary for members of both sides to
address gatherings of this kind—he was restrained from doing so by the police and told that
on the instruction of Mr Speaker there were to be only two speakers, and that as two
students had already spoken no member of Parliament would be allowed to speak to the
gathering.
If the Minister of Education had decided to make some comment to the students after
two students had spoken, would he have been similarly restrained by the police? If not, why
was a Labour member of Parliament restrained? As there is a precedent for members of
Parliament from both sides to briefly address gatherings, whatever the reason for those
gatherings, why was there a specific instruction to the police that a member of Parliament be
restrained from making any comment? This has serious implications. Generally speaking,
groups that bring their pleas to Parliament do so because they are angry about something. It
has been found desirable for members of Parliament to make at least a brief statement about
their party's position. Whether or not the Government wanted to make a statement is its
business, but the Opposition member designated to make a statement on behalf of his party
to that gathering, which I understand was orderly, was restrained by the police. He obeyed
the police without question, because the Labour Party believes in the rule of law.
Hon. Members: Oh!
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I do not like a mass of interjections when a point of order is
being raised.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: Thank you, Mr Speaker. The member reported to me after
he had been restrained by the police. I am concerned that anything like this should happen.
It is not a matter of rabble rousing-as I am sure some members opposite would want to
insist-but simply indicates the stance of a political party—the alternative Government-to
a plea made by a group which, as I said earlier, I understand behaved in an extremely orderly
fashion. I am perplexed why such an instruction should be given, especially when, in the
past, members of Parliament from both sides have exercised their rights and indicated their
party's attitude on the question at issue.
Mr SPEAKER: Before I call the next speaker, may I ask by whom the instruction was
given?
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: The police informed my colleague that the instruction was
given by Mr Speaker.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I think members know and understand,
and indeed agree, that Mr Speaker is responsible for what might happen during demonstra-
tions in Parliament grounds, although there have been occasions in the recent past when his
rulings have been ignored by demonstrators. The normal procedure is not as suggested by
the Leader of the Opposition, but as was carried out today-representatives from the
demonstration called on the Minister of Education and made submissions to him. They could
equally have called on the Leader of the Opposition, or the spokesman on education, or
whoever he liked to designate. For some reason, the Junior Opposition Whip was designated
today. The Leader of the Opposition would be the first to object if a Government member
harangued a demonstration from the front steps of Parliament Buildings, as a result of which
there was some kind of violent behaviour. Having had a personal example as recently as the
week before last, it is news to me that the Labour Party no longer supports violent
demonstrations.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We must not have provocative matter during a point of order.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I was merely responding to a provocative statement by the
Leader of the Opposition.


## p. 1803 (#259) ###########################################

3 August
1803
Student Demonstration
Mr SPEAKER: There is some merit in that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Having had personal experience of the Labour Party's
attitude to demonstrations recently-[Interruption.] It is hypocritical of the Leader of the
Opposition to take that line.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That term must be withdrawn. We are discussing a point of
order as to whether, and how, some restriction was placed on addressing a crowd outside the
House.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I withdraw the comment. However, I am astonished at the
line taken by the Leader of the Labour Opposition today. If you gave those instructions to
the police, Mr Speaker, they were entitled to carry them out; indeed it was their duty. Both
Mr Speaker and the police will have the Government's support.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I wish to point out that the
people assembled outside the building in a peaceful fashion.
Mr Comber: They did in Dunedin, too.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: They had done until the intervention of a National member of
Parliament.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! This point of order is degrading into a two-way slanging match.
If there is a point to be argued I should like to hear argument. If not, I will make a ruling.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I appreciate that, but as you have often ruled that a point of order
should be heard in silence, and there was no intervention on your part, I thought I was at
least entitled to reply to the interjection.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I am not here to receive instruction or correction from a member
of the House. There have been interjections from both sides. Unless they become objection-
able, I hesitate to intervene. I have already intervened against Government members who
made too many interjections earlier. The honourable member's comment was not in good
taste, as he knows.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I suggest-
Hon. T. F. Gill: He wouldn't know.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: There has just been another interjection, which is personally
offensive to me. I request your intervention, Mr Speaker, otherwise I will seek to reply.
Could I have that help?
Mr SPEAKER: No, the honourable member cannot have help until he tells me what the
interjection was. The word "grubby" was applied to a Government member a few moments
ago, but I chose to turn a deaf ear. This time, I did not even hear the comment. If the
member cares to tell me what it was, I will certainly deal with it if it was objectionable.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The comment was objectionable, and I thank you for your help. I
want to continue with the point of order.
Mr SPEAKER: I said that I am prepared to help, but I do not know what the
interjection was.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The interjection came from the Minister of Health, who may care
to repeat it. I do not intend to give him any promotion.
Hon. T. F. Gill: You had made some comment, Mr Speaker, and although I have
forgotten what it was, my response was, "He would not know."
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: It was in reference to poor taste on my part, and then I heard the
comment from the Minister of Health. If I am to be called to order for poor taste, so should
the members on the other side be.
Mr SPEAKER: I feel that it was an unfortunate interjection, but much less unfortunate
than many that are made, such as a very objectionable one that I barely heard a little earlier.
It will probably help to settle the House down if members refrain from interjecting during
discussion on this point of order, and I think it would be a nice gesture if the honourable
member withdrew even that mild expression.
Hon. T. F. Gill: I withdraw my interjection that he wouldn't know.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The point I want to make is simply that the demonstrators came to
bring their case to Parliament, not just to interview the Minister of Education. They sought,
in an orderly fashion, to present a case to members on both sides of the House. The
Opposition designated the member for Hutt to reply. The member went to make that reply,
and was denied the opportunity on the instructions of the police. He accepted the direction,
but the Leader of the Opposition has raised a point of order to inquire about the propriety of
the police action. He has raised it here, in what should be the quiet of the Chamber, rather
than in what could have been an explosive incident if a member of Parliament had attempted
to insist on his right to address his constituents in an orderly fashion. It has not been


## p. 1804 (#260) ###########################################

1804
3 August
Student Demonstration
determined whether the police did, in fact, receive the instruction that the officer conveyed
to the member for Hutt, or whether the instruction applied only to the demonstrators and
was misinterpreted. That is the point that the Leader of the Opposition would like you to
make clear to the House.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I was aware that there would be a march
and a demonstration today. I was asked by the students' associations yesterday whether I
would see a deputation. I agreed to do so, and the deputation came to see me. It was an
extremely orderly demonstration, and I have already complimented the students on that.
The purpose of the demonstration, as I understand it, was two-fold. First, to educate the
public; secondly, to see me to make representations about the recent increases to the
standard tertiary bursary. The students' representatives came to my office, and we had a
very cordial discussion, although they put their case very forcibly. At no stage did they
mention that they had been deprived of the opportunity of being addressed by anybody.
They asked me whether I wished to speak to the people outside, and I said that probably I
would not have much chance of putting my case across. Another reason was that, as the
Prime Minister said, sometimes the appearance of the Minister at whom the demonstration
is aimed can be considered provocative. The deputation met me, and we discussed the
matter. The members of the deputation left my office-
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: In tears.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: They were not happy of course-I would not expect them to
be-but certainly there was no question of their having been deprived of the right to hear
any other person. I am sure that if they had wished to see the Opposition and put their case,
they could have done what they did to me-they could have asked the Leader of the
Opposition for the opportunity to present a deputation. This is just a lot of nonsense.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): Mr Speaker, I have just had—
Mr SPEAKER: I did say it was the last speaker.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I realise that.
Mr SPEAKER: I think I should take the pleasure of the House. I do not want to go back
on my earlier statement.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: Have one more from each side.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Of course.
Mr SPEAKER: Very well, one from each side. Is it the pleasure of the House that we
allow two more speakers, one from each side of the House? There appears to be no
objection.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: There is no objection whatever, and no attempt other than
to clarify the matter. I just wanted to give the House the benefit of the information in a note
which has just been handed to me by the Minister of Police and which I am sure will assist in
clarifying the matter. This is a message from the police, who obviously have been listening to
the debate, and it says simply this, and I will read it verbatim: "Inspector Huggard, the
inspector in charge of the demonstration"-and I am not sure what that means, but I read it
verbatim "did not forbid the Labour member from speaking. He only banned the use of
the loudhailer, use of which is banned in the grounds." That is a message from the Minister
of Police, which has come from the police as a result of the debate. The statement is that the
inspector merely banned the use of the loudhailer. I think that you and I know that there is a
standing instruction that loudhailers are banned on these occasions. I simply read it. I have
no other knowledge. It was given to me by the Minister of Police.
Mr T. J. Young: The police are lying.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It has come from his office, and I just put it forward in the
hope that it can be helpful.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): As a result of the police report
I have consulted again with my colleague on the matter raised by the Prime Minister. My
colleague says that when-
Hon. Allan McCready: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The member for Hutt clearly
interjected and said, "The police are lying."
Mr SPEAKER: That is a most objectionable accusation against a much respected organ
of the State. It is not, however, in contravention of Standing Orders, because it was not said
about a member of the House.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: I was commenting that I had consulted my colleague the
member for Hutt whose word, I think I can fairly say, is respected in the House. He said that
there was no question but that he was banned from speaking. The question of microphones
did not enter into it. In response to the comment by the Minister of Education I simply want


## p. 1805 (#261) ###########################################

3 August
1805
Student Demonstration
to say that yesterday when I was at Victoria University and in consultation with some
members of the students executive I was asked to have not one speaker, but the whole of
caucus there. I declined for very obvious reasons, but gave an undertaking that there would
be a representative of the Parliamentary Labour Party to meet the delegation. It is obvious
why the students did not know that a person had been prevented from speaking to them.
When the member for Hutt made the effort to speak he was told by the police in clear terms
that Mr Speaker had given an instruction that there were to be two speakers. The member
for Hutt acquiesced to the police instruction, as I would expect.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: The students were standing beside him. I saw it from my window,
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The students may have been standing anywhere. I am not
aware of where the students were. But I am prepared to accept without any qualification—
[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! A point of order is being argued and I have repeatedly said that I
want points of order to be heard in silence, to be expressed in moderate terms, and not to be
the subject of repeated interjections.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: As I was saying, I am prepared to accept without
qualification the word of my colleague the member for Hutt in so far as he recounts the
incident. What effect it had on other people is largely incidental. What we are endeavouring
to determine is what precipitated a police officer's requiring a member of Parliament to
desist from making any comment to an orderly group in front of Parliament Buildings.
Mr SPEAKER: Before I comment, I think it is reasonable for me to ask what was the
name of the police officer who said Mr Speaker had said there were to be two speakers?
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: I don't know whether my colleague asked the police officer his
name, but I am sure it will not be too difficult to find out who he was.
Mr SPEAKER: Can he be identified?
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: It will not be too difficult to establish who he was, and I think
my colleague may be able to do that right now if he is given the opportunity of making a
comment.
Mr SPEAKER: In the first place, I am gratified to know that the gathering was orderly,
as it seems was the deputation to the Minister; but the other circumstances seem to me to
amount to a regrettable zephyr in a teacup. No instruction whatever was given by me about
the demonstration. The demonstrators did not even have the courtesy to let me know they
wanted to come here. Most demonstrators apply for permission to come to Parliament
grounds. It is usually granted-in fact it is almost invariably granted-on certain conditions,
including that no sound amplification equipment be used, that the demonstration be orderly,
and so on. I did not even know that they were coming here, except that I read in the
paper-I think this morning-that an official of the city council had said that they had not
obtained permission to march through the town. That was all I knew about the occasion.
Therefore, if it is correct that a member of the police or anyone else said that I had given
instructions that there were to be only two speakers when I did not even know the
demonstration was to be held apart from reading in the paper that some demonstrators
might be coming but had not yet obtained permission from the city council to walk through
the streets, he was at best completely mistaken. I gave no instructions at all, and there the
matter must end.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): A further point of order, Mr Speaker. I should like
your guidance because this incident is a regrettable one. We have said for many years that
Parliament is the highest court in the land. I know that is incorrect, but many people believe
that they have the right to come and present their case to Parliament. I ask you, Mr Speaker,
either now or at an early date, to clarify the rights of a member of Parliament to meet and
address his constituents on the steps of Parliament Buildings or in a part of Parliament
Buildings, as has been designated by Speakers from time to time, allowing the demonstrators
to come right inside the building to present their case without any interference by the police
or any outside organisation. I believe this rather regrettable incident might perhaps be
improved if you are able to clarify the rights of a member, who is elected to the House to
look after the interests of the people in his and other electorates; to meet, talk to, or address
people in the precincts of Parliament Buildings.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not think it appropriate for me, just off the cuff, to make any far-
reaching and widely inclusive statement on the matter. I shall merely indicate the views I
have already, and act upon them. In common with the practice in a number of overseas
legislatures, I hold the view that Parliament grounds are not a proper place for party political
gatherings. I am aware that when demonstrators have come to Parliament from time to time


## p. 1806 (#262) ###########################################

1806
3 August
Student Demonstration
members from both sides of the House have gone down the steps and either mingled with or
spoken to the gatherings. In the absence of direct instructions from the House it is not for me
to prevent such action, and I have certainly given no instructions opposing it.
On the other hand, I have no intention of facilitating the tendency for Parliament
grounds to become a sort of Hyde Park Corner. I have a firm and definite view that we
should not encourage or permit the use of sound amplification equipment, which would
defeat the bylaws giving the city council control over loudspeakers in the city and provide a
rent-free meeting place that could rapidly become very popular for public harangues of
various sorts. Therefore, although I have not taken any steps to restrain members from going
and talking to demonstrators who come here from time to time—and I am not sure that I
have the power to do so-it is my intention not to grant permission for the use of sound
amplification equipment, which can be a nuisance to people working in the buildings or
nearby and can also lead to the use of Parliament grounds as a Hyde Park Corner. If we are
to have a Hyde Park Corner it would be better if, as in Britain, it was well away from
Parliament House.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: May I seek clarification, Mr Speaker?
Mr SPEAKER: I am afraid that, although it is 5 minutes to 3, we have not yet started on
the business of the day. If it is desired to make an approach to me I shall be glad to hear the
views of honourable members when they have made an appointment, but after spending 25
minutes on this point already-—and, as I say, it arose virtually out of nothing because I did
not even know the demonstration was coming here, and I laid down no restrictions
whatever-
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: I object to that comment. It did not arise out of nothing, and it
is not fair to say so.
Mr SPEAKER: The Leader of the Opposition will apologise if he continues to speak in
that fashion while he is sitting down. The position is this: it was said categorically that the
Speaker had given an instruction. I gave no instruction whatever, and that is why I say it
arose out of nothing. At 3 minutes to 3 I am not prepared to allow discussion on this incident
or on the broad implications of political meetings in Parliament grounds to continue.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Surely this isn't a police State yet?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member who interjected was insulting the Chair. He will
apologise to the Chair.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I will apologise to the Chair if you so request.
Mr SPEAKER: The member will simply say, "I apologise."
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I apologise.
NOTICE OF MOTION—ADMISSIBILITY
Dr WALL (Porirua): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That this House
regrets that the Speaker has stated that the preventing of a member of Parliament from
speaking in Parliament grounds is of so little importance in his eyes—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member well knows that he must hand a notice of motion to
the Clerk of the House before it is given in the House. Apparently he has just made up the
notice of motion and has not handed it in to the Clerk.
Dr WALL: A point of Order, Mr Speaker. You are aware that I followed the Standing
Orders instructions on notices of motion when, some weeks ago, I gave notice of a motion
criticising your actions or your deputy's actions and it was rejected on the ground that I had
not substantiated the matter to be argued. So I am in the difficult situation that it is
impossible for us to give notice of a motion critical of the Speaker, as is provided for in the
Standing Orders, because it will be ruled out of order as requiring substantiation. And now it
seems that again making use of the Standing Orders, you will not accept another notice of
motion apparently because it is critical of the Speaker's behaviour.
Mr SPEAKER: That is a reflection on the Chair, but I shall not take the action I
obviously should take against the member. It is absolutely incorrect that I am using Standing
Orders to prevent notice of a motion disagreeing with my action. A number of such notices
have been given in the past, and they have not been prevented. If I heard the beginning of
the member's notice correctly, he was about to give a notice that does not comply with the
procedures of the House in that it has not been handed to the Clerk. It seems that it was
written on the spur of the moment, and the member well knows that is entirely in
contravention of Standing Orders. If I am mistaken, and his notice of motion was not written
out just a few minutes ago but had properly been written out before, the member is still


## p. 1807 (#263) ###########################################

3 August
1807
Oral Answers to Questions
entitled to hand it to the Clerk. I am told by the Clerk that he had no prior knowledge of the
notice, which is essential before any notice of motion is given in the House. No special
privilege can be given to any member of the House.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Drug Law Enforcement Courses
1. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Customs: How many drug law
enforcement courses were conducted by his department during the year ended 31 March
1977?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): My department's training curriculum
does not include courses devoted solely to drug law enforcement. However, all formal
training courses conducted by the customs central training school—that is, some 53 in the
year ended 31 March 1977—include sessions on narcotic identification, detection, and
current trends in importation and use. This system of education has been found to be the
most effective in teaching and updating the knowledge of the many officers likely to
encounter narcotics in the normal course of their work. The needs of the smaller number of
officers requiring more in-depth knowledge of narcotics legislation and investigation tech-
niques are catered for on courses organised and run by the Police Department. Co-operation
between Police and Customs in these courses is excellent, and Customs staff play a full role
in providing both course members and instructors.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Electors-Proof of Identity
2. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Justice: Is he aware
that President Carter has stated his intention of legislating for electors to be able to vote on
election day on reasonable proof of identity, even though not enrolled, and that several
states in the United States already have such a system which works successfully, and, if so,
will he draw this to the attention of the Chief Electoral Officer and ask for a report on
measures to facilitate the exercise by New Zealanders of the democratic right and duty to
vote on election day?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): Every state in the United States has its
own electoral law, and there is no one law for the United States of America. I have no details
of the proposal the honourable member referred to. New Zealanders already have the
democratic right and responsibility to enrol as registered electors, and it is on this basis that
they are eligible to vote. However, I shall watch with interest any development in the United
States.
Hon. Michael Connelly: If I supply the Minister with information on the report, will he
arrange for such an investigation to be undertaken?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I will be happy to refer to the Chief Electoral Officer any
such information the member gives me.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: In the light of the last part of the original question, referring to the
exercise by New Zealanders of the democratic right and duty to vote on election day, will the
Minister take into account the need to amend existing legislation which allows non-New
Zealanders to vote in national elections in New Zealand?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I am conducting a study into the electoral law at present.
Mr Prebble: In view of the large number of people who are entitled to vote in New
Zealand but who have their votes disallowed every year because for one reason or another
they are not properly enrolled, will the Minister consider introducing the American system,
assuming that New Zealanders are at least as honest as Americans?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I have already told the House that a study of the electoral
law is taking place now, and in that study, of course, we will be considering whether any
amendment needs to be made to facilitate registration and voting.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Custody Orders-Fathers' Rights
3. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Justice: Has he seen the
Department of Justice statistics 1976 for domestic proceedings, which indicate that a total of
2397 custody orders were made, including custody orders to the mother in 2150 cases, and


## p. 1808 (#264) ###########################################

1808
3 August
Oral Answers to Questions
does the Government propose any steps to overcome the inequality of fathers in such
situations?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I have seen the figures referred to. The
honourable member will know that the existing law, as set out in the Guardianship Act 1968,
focuses on the welfare of the child and does not discriminate against fathers. In many cases,
custody will be sought by the mother and not seriously opposed by the father. In other cases
the father will be unable to convince the court that he can make satisfactory arrangements
for the day-to-day care of the child while he goes out to work. The courts must retain a
discretion to act in what they see as the child's best interests, but it may be possible to
improve the practical application of the law in relation to fathers. This is currently being
studied in connection with the review of the law on matrimonial proceedings.
Mr Lange: Do the 2150 cases where custody awards were made in favour of the mother
include those cases where custody was awarded by consent of the father, and do they also
include those cases where some of the children in the family were awarded into the custody
of the mother and some children into the custody of the father?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Presumably, that is so.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is it not correct that many fathers consent to custody being given to
the mother because they know it is a waste of money to try to get the courts to accept the
principle that families also need fathers?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I have no way of answering that question.
Mrs Batchelor: Does the Minister know in how many cases the father actually applies
for custody of the children?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: No, I do not keep the answer to that question in my mind,
but it may be possible to obtain that information if the honourable member would give
notice of the question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Factories-Assistance with Financial Problems
4. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert), on behalf of Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central),
asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Is there any co-operation between his department
and the Department of Labour to ensure that assistance is available to factories with
financial troubles immediately difficulties present themselves?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): When consultation
is initiated by companies at an appropriately early stage, my department co-operates with
agencies which may be able to help to resolve financial difficulties faced by New Zealand
manufacturers. If these difficulties cannot be satisfactorily resolved, then the Department of
Labour co-operates by assisting with the placement of any employees needing alternative
employment.
Hon. W. W. Freer: On how many instances has the Minister's department taken the
initiative in trying to resolve financial difficulties with companies, and on how many
occasions has it consulted with the Department of Labour?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I find that a very difficult question indeed. The
member asked how many instances in which my department has entered into consultations
to resolve financial difficulties.
Hon. W. W. Freer: On this basis.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I am not sure. The question is not clear. The
Department of Labour is regarded by my department as the official adviser on employment
matters. At that point there is consultation between my officers and officers of the Minister
of Labour. They consult each other on employment matters. In regard to advice on financial
matters and these things have occurred frequently under successive Governments—the
department refers companies to its appropriate division or to agencies such as the Develop-
ment Finance Corporation, the Rural Banking and Finance Corporation, and the Depart-
ment of Labour. I cannot give the statistics. I shall endeavour to get the information if the
member puts down another question.
Mr Prebble: In view of the story appearing in last night's Auckland Star and this
morning's New Zealand Herald about the closure of the only factory on Waiheke Island, will
the Minister be consulting the Department of Labour about possible financial assistance in
an attempt to keep the factory going?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I will be consulting with the Minister of Labour, and
my officers will be consulting with the Department of Labour. I also hope to have some


## p. 1809 (#265) ###########################################

3 August
1809
Oral Answers to Questions
consultation with the honourable gentleman on this matter. I have been working on this
matter this morning. I was very pleased to learn that last week officers of my department in
Auckland had been in touch with the management of the factory. We will be working on this
as it develops over the next few days.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
LPG Plant in Taranaki
5. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Can
he confirm that the Government is investigating the possibility of establishing an LPG plant
in Taranaki, and, if this is so, can he indicate when this study will be completed?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): There is no proposal that the
Government itself establish such a plant. However, the Government has evaluated proposals
put forward by Maui Development Ltd, in which the Government is a 50 percent share-
holder through Off-Shore Mining Ltd, involving the establishment of an LPG production
plant at Oaonui, where the on-shore processing facilities for Maui gas are located. I wrote to
the company last week setting out the Government's views, which are that Maui LPG could
usefully be extracted to supply a wide range of markets throughout the country as quickly as
possible.
Hon. W. W. Freer: As the Minister has said that he would like to see the development
of such extraction, does this mean that there will now be a reversal of the Government's
policy and that LPG will be supplied to Blenheim?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The honourable member's question is in error. He will recall that
both political parties gave a certain assurance to Blenheim, and that assurance has been
honoured.
Hon. W. W. Freer: What about Nelson?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: This is in respect of Blenheim. The next question is establishing the
price at which this LPG will be available in Blenheim. In this instance I am referring to
Kapuni LPG. I interpret the question to concern itself more particularly with the major
development off shore, which is Maui, and the LPG potential that this will provide for the
country. I hope that before many weeks have passed I will be in a position to give detailed
information on this subject.
Mr Latter: Is the Minister aware that the member for Marlborough has this week been
given very satisfactory answers on this subject by the Minister of Trade and Industry and
hopes to convey this to the Blenheim Borough Council within the next 4 days?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The member for Marlborough, who has been very active in
prosecuting the details of this case, was assured by me a week ago that the Minister of Trade
and Industry and I hoped to have the answer for him within the next week or so. I am
pleased to hear he now has the information.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Coastal Trader-Freight Charges
6. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he give the dates and
details of the increases made in the Coastal Trader's freight charges since December 1975,
and can he also indicate how the new transport pricing policy announced in the Budget will
affect the Coastal Trader's freight charges?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): The following freight rate
increases have been applied to the Coastal Trader service by the Shipping Corporation: on 12
February 1976, 30 percent on southbound cargo, and 26 percent on northbound cargo; on 14
July 1976, 35 percent on southbound cargo, and 29 percent on northbound cargo. On 1 July
1977, following a complete restructuring of the existing tariff, based on historical cargo
movements, the calculated increase in scheduled freight rates was a weighted average of
approximately 11 percent. On the question of the differential freight rates referred to in the
Budget, the Shipping Corporation began operating such a system for the Coastal Trader in
February 1976. The extent of any change in the present differential will be governed to a
large degree by any future movement in rail freight rates with which the corporation
maintains a relative competitive position.
Mr Kirk: As the Minister has said that any future movements in the freight rates for the
Coastal Trader will be tied to any increase in railway freight rates, can he indicate whether
during the next 6 months there will be another increase in railway freight rates?
9-Vol. 412


## p. 1810 (#266) ###########################################

1810
3 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable member did not catch what I was talking
about. I said, a restructuring; I did not talk about an increase.
Mr Bell: Will the freight rates applicable from 1 July 1977 mean that the Coastal Trader
will operate at a loss or a profit, or will it break even?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do not have that information with me.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Can the Minister give an assurance that the new differential rate
will not mean that southbound freight rates will rise substantially and that the northbound
rates will rise by a lesser amount, which happened last year for the Coastal Trader, as shown
by the figures given by the Minister?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable member would know the difficulty.
There is much more freight southbound than going in the opposite direction. Through
differential freight rates we are trying to give an advantage to the South Island, but in future
action will be taken by the Government having regard to regional development, and I intend
to have discussions with the Minister of Regional Development on how we can amplify this
in the future.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Totalisators--Statistics
7. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth), on behalf of Miss DEWE (Lyttelton), asked
the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department: What total sum was put through
the totalisators of New Zealand for the year ended 31 March 1977 from which the Inland
Revenue Department collected $29,948,813 in racing duty?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department):
The total amount of totalisator turnover on which racing duty was paid for the year ended 31
March 1977 was $349.3 million.
Mr Friedlander: What is the percentage rate levied for duty, and when was that rate
amended and in which direction?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: That is a fairly complex question. The 1976 Budget assisted
racing clubs by increasing the racing clubs' commission on on-course investments by 0.5
percent, and that took effect from 1 September 1976. The formula was quite complex. It was
done by decreasing the on-course betting duty and by increasing the off-course duty.
Mr Blanchfield: Could the Minister confirm that doubles investors lose 20 percent per
bet, and, if so, how much of this went into the Consolidated Revenue Account in 1976-77?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: That has caught me off-course, and I will have to ask for a
substitute answer if the member would like to put down another question. He is much more
expert than I am.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Because the Minister seems fairly happy with the dividend
he has collected from totalisator tax, does he have any plans for a reduction in that tax with a
view to assisting the racing industry?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am always open to a punt from the Racing Conferences.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Freight Rates
8. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he
elaborate on the recently announced changes in transport pricing policy to allow freight rates
to reflect actual costs to a greater extent, and can he state clearly how and over what period
this new policy will be implemented?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): The proposed restructuring of
inter-island freight rates has been designed not only to assist South Island manufacturers but
also to apportion the costs of freight services more equitably. As the predominant flow of
goods is at present from north to south, greater capacity and hence greater capital
expenditure must be provided to cope with this southbound traffic. The net result would be a
differential between northbound and southbound rates. Discussions have been initiated with
the Railways Department and the Shipping Corporation, who have agreed to implement
such a differential in their next review of freight rates.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: In view of the Minister's claim that the transport pricing policy
announced in the Budget would assist regional development, can he indicate the form any
differential would take, and which modes of transport will be affected?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I believe the new policy will affect all modes of transport.


## p. 1811 (#267) ###########################################

3 August
1811
Oral Answers to Questions
It will introduce more competition into the transport sector, which should have the effect of
looking after the person who pays.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State House Tenancies-Rent Outstanding
9. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Housing: What is the
outstanding amount of rental due to the Housing Corporation from State house tenancies as
at 31 March 1977, and are any steps being taken to improve the arrears situation?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): Outstanding rental due to the Housing
Corporation from State house tenancies as at 31 March 1977 was $691,441. This amount was
owed by 3735 tenants, and represents 6.57 percent of the 56 000 tenancies administered by
the corporation. This favourably compares with the position as at 31 March 1976, when 4476
tenants out of a total of 55 005 owed $731,198, representing a percentage of 8.14. The
corporation is adopting a firmer line with defaulting tenants, which is reflected in the
improved arrears position. The corporation's housing officers, who are in direct contact with
tenants, have played an active part in arrears collections. Where co-operation cannot be
obtained from the tenants, legal action is being taken through the courts, and in some serious
arrears cases possession of the properties has been obtained.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Can the Minister give the comparison between the arrears, which
were more than $600,000, and the annual revenue received from the 50 000 State tenants?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I do not have that figure immediately available, but my
memory is that it is about $30 million. If the honourable member would like to write the
figures down, he will see that $691,441 is about 6.5 percent.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Of the houses, not of the rent?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: No, of the rents, so he can work that out by simple
arithmetic.
Mr Lange: Could the Minister not come to an arrangement with the Minister of Social
Welfare so that persons entitled to benefits might have their rental paid by direct credit from
the Social Welfare vote?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: The suggestion made by the member overlooks the fact that a
deduction from a social welfare benefit cannot be made without the recipient's authority. I
do not believe it would be practicable to automatically deduct the rental. The problem can
be resolved only with a great deal of manpower and by people discussing the payment of
arrears with the tenants. I have asked the Housing Corporation to introduce a pilot scheme
to investigate the methods that might be necessary to improve the position, and I am hoping
to have its report within the next few weeks.
Mr Lange: Does the Minister agree that when tenants do seek to have the Department
of Social Welfare discharge their rental obligations, insuperable difficulties are placed in
their way?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I am not aware of that happening, but if the member can
bring specific instances to my attention I will undertake to have them investigated.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Broadcasting of Midweek Races Survey
10. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Was
the listening survey which led to the reduction of midweek racing broadcasts confined to
residential listening or did it also include radio listening by groups in offices and factories?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I am informed by the Broadcast-
ing Corporation of New Zealand that the survey referred to by the honourable member was
not confined to residential listening. Forms were distributed to residential dwellings, but the
appropriate number were left with respondents for 7 days before collection, so that all
members of the household could record their views. I understand that a high proportion of
the forms were completed on a household basis and in terms of the national average for age
groups. Therefore, the forms returned could be said to be fairly representative.
Mr Blanchfield: In view of the many contradictory statements made about the people
approached, would the Minister call for a further survey of the particulars in the original
survey?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: This matter is considered to be a programme matter by the
Broadcasting Corporation. I shall, as I have already done, convey the views of any
9.


## p. 1812 (#268) ###########################################

1812
3 August
Oral Answers to Questions
honourable member to the corporation for consideration.
Mr Elliott: Can the Minister confirm that TAB receipts are much lower where doubles
races are not broadcast, and that the action will seriously affect the revenue of provincial
racing clubs?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I have endeavoured to convey to the House that I am not an
expert in this field. I shall take the member's word, and if necessary convey his remarks to
the Broadcasting Corporation.
Mr Lithgow: Is it correct that the survey included a number of 15- to 17-year-old boys
and girls, who would probably not have a high interest in racing?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The survey did cover the normal age groups in a household.
I would imagine the member's assumption is correct, but I am not sure of that age group's
interest in racing.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is the Broadcasting Corporation of New Zealand aware that if it
does not provide this service the private radio stations might do so, in which case there could
be a detrimental loss of revenue to the Broadcasting Corporation?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am sure that the Broadcasting Corporation is aware of that
possibility, as it has been drawn to its attention.
Mr Bell: Can the Minister confirm that the survey conducted in 1977 showed that only
16 percent of the people indicated they were moderately or keenly interested in racing
broadcasts, whereas the survey conducted in 1969 showed that 24 percent indicated they
were moderately or keenly interested?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I understand there has been some shift in opinion, as shown
by survey samples, and this may well have affected the corporation's attitude to racing
broadcasts.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Telephone Semi-automatic Exchange, Ruatoria
11. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Postmaster-General: Can he advise when the
proposed semi-automatic exchange for Ruatoria is likely to be in operation?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): It is proposed to replace the present
exchange with a better type of manual exchange about mid-1978. Subscribers' telephones
will be changed to a modern automatic type.
Mr Bell: Can the Postmaster-General confirm that the improvement in the service at
Ruatoria is a combination of many years of representations by the East Coast people?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I regret that I cannot verify that. It sounds as though the
member is very well informed and I accept his question as an explanation.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Regional Development-Restrictions
12. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) to ask the Minister of Regional
Development: Can he (a) indicate each of the restrictions that were placed on the regional
development programme by his Government in 1976, and (b) indicate which of these
restrictions will now be lifted? Because of the length of the reply that the Minister intends to
make to this question, and in an endeavour to be helpful, I seek the leave of the House to
have the question transferred to Questions for Written Answer.
Mr SPEAKER: I think it is a very commendable suggestion, and I am sure it will be
readily complied with.
Manufactured Exports Using Indigenous Raw Materials
13. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade: What volume and
value of manufactured exports used indigenous raw materials as their main components in
the last recorded year and the 3 previous years?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Overseas Trade. His answer is as follows: "No product-by-product analysis
has been made of the proportion of indigenous raw materials used in manufactured exports.
However, I shall be happy to make available to the honourable member a table showing
selected groups which by their nature use indigenous raw materials as their main component.


## p. 1813 (#269) ###########################################

3 August
1813
Oral Answers to Questions
One of the problems is that some major export products, such as meat, wool, and dairy
products, which do have an element of manufacture, are not recorded in the statistics, so it is
difficult to give the exact information to the honourable member."
Mr Falloon: In view of the Budget's proposals to improve export incentives for
industries with a minimum input of imported materials, can the Minister confirm that studies
are being made that will match the proposals in the Budget with the tables being drawn up?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The answer is in the affirmative. As I have said, I
have a list that I will give to the honourable member and to any other member who requires
it. The list sets out the facts concerning about a dozen products. It includes processed fruit
and vegetables, foods, beverages, processed fish products, textiles, leather, concrete
products, sawn timber, processed forest products, wood pulp, newsprint, paper and paper-
board. The statistics for those products are available and will form the basis of discussions
with the industries. Each industry will be taken on its merits, and the figures will be provided
for the industries that show an interest in the incentive provisions in the Budget.
Hon. W. W. Freer: As the information was sought in the House, and as the Minister has
said that he is prepared to make the information available to the member who asked the
question and to any other interested member, will he distribute the information to all
members?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I will have the list printed and circulated to all
members.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd
14. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Does the
Government propose to take any action to prevent the largely farmer-owned company,
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd, with works at Seadown and Ravensbourne being taken over by
Kempthorne Prosser Ltd and thus ensure that a monopoly situation is not created for basic
fertiliser supplies to farmers in the area between Otago and Taranaki?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Agricul-
ture. His answer is as follows: "I understand that the examiner of trade practices has
examined the proposed takeover of Dominion Fertiliser Ltd by Kempthorne Prosser Ltd and
has reported that in his opinion the proposal does not infringe the provisions of the
Commerce Act 1975. Accordingly, there are no grounds on which the Government could
take action in this case."
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Despite the Minister's reply and his reference to the examiner of
trade practices, is he aware that basic fertiliser supplied by Kempthorne Prosser Ltd to
farmers costs about $4 per tonne more than that supplied by Dominion Fertiliser Ltd, and
are he and his colleagues not concerned about the farmers?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I am aware of the difference in price of fertiliser from the various
companies. An application by Dominion Fertiliser Ltd for an injunction to stop Kempthorne
Prosser Ltd proceeding with the takeover is now before the court, and therefore I consider it
inappropriate to expand on my original answer.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Would the Government be prepared to support a producer co-
operative takeover of Dominion Fertiliser Ltd instead of a takeover by Kempthorne Prosser
Ltd?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I do not think the question bears any relation to the original
question or my answer. I am not prepared to comment at this stage. The member can ask
another question about this matter if he so desires.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Education-Student Bursaries
15. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Education: What has been
the increased payment in bursaries to students since 1 February 1976?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): School boarding bursaries were
increased from $300 to $400 per annum from the beginning of term three 1976 and will be
further increased to $500 per annum from the beginning of term three this year. The total
payments for this form of assistance in recent financial years were: 1975-76, $840,000; 1976-
77, $899,000; and in 1977-78, $1.36 million. Tertiary bursaries were increased substantially
with the introduction of the standard tertiary bursary at the beginning of 1976, and set at an


## p. 1814 (#270) ###########################################

1814
3 August
Oral Answers to Questions
unabated rate of $24 a week. The Government has approved an increase of $2 a week in all
rates from the beginning of the 1978 academic year. Total tertiary bursary payments per
annum over this period are as follows: 1975-76, $13.7 million; 1976-77, $24.6 million;
1977-78, $25.9 million. In effect, therefore, this represents an increase of 88 percent in total
Government expenditure on bursaries in the last 2 years.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is this 88 percent increase in the payment of bursaries to students in
accordance with the Government's policy?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The 88 percent comes about largely from the substantial increase
last year, following the introduction of the standard tertiary bursary in the 1975-76 year.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Is the Minister satisfied that the proposed new rate for the bursary
will meet the students' needs?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I am certain that nobody is ever satisfied with what he gets by
way of handouts from the Government, no matter what it is. This must be seen in
perspective, however. In the last 2 years Government expenditure on bursaries has increased
by 88 percent. The university component of the standard tertiary bursary represents nearly
20 percent of the total expenditure on universities.
Mr Wellington: What is the percentage increase in the boarding bursary, and has the
increase outlined by the Minister arisen largely from the Government's recognition of the
social disadvantages experienced by young people in rural areas?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The answer to the first part of the question is that the increase,
from $840,000 to $1.3 million, is a little more than 66 percent, and certainly this recognises
the fact that rural education is important, and that the support of children in rural areas by
means of boarding bursaries is a most important component.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
QUESTIONS AND REPLIES
[Covering period 7 July to 27 July.]
WRITTEN QUESTIONS
Tongan Earthquake-Radio New Zealand Communication Service
1. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Following the recent severe
earthquake in Tonga: (a) was Radio New Zealand able to use its 7.5 kW shortwave
transmitter to demonstrate our willingness to assist, and, if not, why not; (b) was any attempt
made to liaise with Radio Australia in an endeavour to keep communications going between
the local Tongan community and Tongan families in New Zealand; and (c) were the first
reports which were broadcast by Radio New Zealand sent by its own correspondent in
Tonga, a newspaper correspondent, or from what source?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied: I am advised that the
answers to each of the honourable member's specific queries are as follows: (a) The present
Radio New Zealand shortwave service relays domestic services only, and does not originate
programmes. Following the earthquake, national programme news bulletins relayed to the
Pacific by the shortwave transmitters reported that the New Zealand Government would
meet any request for aid to the best of its ability. They also advised that CORSO had $3,000
on hand for immediate aid and would be making inquiries about the type of assistance
needed. (b) No. It is doubtful if liaison with Radio Australia could improve communication
between Tonga and New Zealand. The Radio New Zealand shortwave station can be readily
picked up at any time in Tonga-Radio Tonga rebroadcasts a daily news bulletin from Radio
New Zealand as well as a weekly bulletin in Tongan-while Radio Tonga can be received
through the receiving station at Quartz Hill. (c) The first report broadcast was received from
The NZPA-Reuter service, quoting the United States Geological Survey in Washington.
The first report on the effects in Tonga came from Radio Tonga, monitored through the
Quartz Hill receiving station.
(7/7/77)
Greytown Manual Telephone Exchange Closure-Staff Lay-Offs
2. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Postmaster-General: What provision is his department
making for the toll operators who are being laid off in Greytown this month?


## p. 1815 (#271) ###########################################

3 August
1815
Questions and Replies
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: Thirteen operators were
employed at the Greytown manual telephone exchange. After the cutover, 2 accepted
transfer to the Featherston exchange and 11 resigned in accordance with the conditions of
their employment. One of the 11 who resigned had been offered and had accepted transfer
to Masterton, but had subsequently resigned before taking up work in Masterton because
she was leaving the district.
(7/7/77)
Recreation and Sports Grants-Community Distribution
3. Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) asked the Minister of Recreation and Sport: Has he seen the
statement by Mr W. G. T. Wiggs, Chairman of the Wellington Community Arts Council, in
the Dominion of 24 June that "local bodies were deliberately dissuading arts and culture
groups from applying for recreation and sports grants", and, if so, is the statement true; and
will he supply the breakdown of the grants provided through local authorities during the last
financial year to (a) sports groups; (b) arts and cultural groups; and (c) other community
groups?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Recreation and Sport) replied: I have seen the
statement by Mr Wiggs as reported in the Dominion. It would not be true that local
authorities in general are dissuading arts and cultural groups from applying for recreation
and sport grants. There may be one or two examples of this, but the great majority will be
guided by my advice that the needs of cultural groups must be considered together with those
of sports and other recreation organisations. Returns from 223 local authorities last year
show the following breakdown: (a) 1832 distributions involving $671,951 for 45 different
sports; (b) 312 distributions involving $108,495 for 11 different categories of arts and cultural
activities; and (c) 1467 distributions involving $664,159 for 60 other kinds of recreational
activities. Although this represents a higher proportion of funds going to arts and cultural
groups than for the previous year, I believe these groups are still getting less than their fair
share.
(7/7/77)
Bus Service, Wellington New Plymouth
·
4. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Railways: What are the timetables
and the fares for the passenger bus service from Wellington to New Plymouth and return?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: The existing timetable for
passenger bus services from Wellington to New Plymouth and return, operated by the
Railway Road Services, is shown in table 1 below. The Blue Streak railcar will be withdrawn
from service on 31 July 1977 and, subject to the approval of the Transport Licensing
Authority, the timetable for the passenger bus service to be operated by the Railway Road
Services between Wellington and New Plymouth from 1 August 1977 is as shown in table 2.
The present Railway Road Services adult fare from Wellington to New Plymouth is $8.80
and to Wanganui $5, and there will be no change to these fares when the proposed new bus
service is introduced. The fares to Palmerston North, Feilding, and Marton on the proposed
new bus service have not yet been approved by the Secretary for Transport, but it is
anticipated that they will not exceed the existing Blue Streak railcar fares.
Table 1-Existing Road Services Timetable
From Wellington to New Plymouth
Daily
Incl.
Mon.
Mon.
Mon.
to Fri.
Fri.
Fri.
Sun.
to Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
to Sat.
Sun.
Sun.
Incl.
Incl.
Incl.
a.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
Depart Wellington
p.m.
p.m.
a.m.
p.m.
8.45
1.20
4.30
5.10
4.40
5.50
1.20
5.40
Arrive Wanganui
12.40
5.15
8.00
8.20
8.10
9.30
5.15
9.10
Depart Wanganui
1.30
5.45
8.35
8.35
8.20
Arrive New Plymouth
8.30
6.00
5.10
9.05
11.20
11.20 11.05
12.15
9.20
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m. p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.


## p. 1816 (#272) ###########################################

1816
3 August
Questions and Replies
From New Plymouth to Wellington
Daily
Mon.
Mon.
Mon.
Incl.
to Fri.
Fri.
Sun.
Sun.
to Fri.
Sat.
Sun.
Incl.
Incl.
to Sat.
Inci.
a.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
Depart New Plymouth ...
p.m.
p.m.
a.m.
8.50
2.45
2.45
2.00
2.30
1.15
2.30
Arrive Wanganui
12.40
6.05
5.20
5.20
5.20
4.55
5.50
Depart Wanganui
1.30
6.45
5.35
5.50
5.50
Arrive Wellington
8.25
5.15
10.15
8.55
9.10
9.10
12.15
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
Table 2-Proposed Road Services Timetable
From Wellington to New Plymouth
Mon.
Mon. Mon.
Sun.
Mon. Mon. Fri. Fri.
Sun. Mon. Sat.
Sun. Mon.
Sun.
to
to
10
to
to
to
to
Sat.
Sat.
Sat.
Fri.
Fri.
Fri.
Sat.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
a.m.
p.m. p.m.
Depart
p.m. p.m. p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m.
Wellington 8.30
9.00
9.00
8.30
5.50
1.20 4.30 5.10 4.40 4.55 1.20 5.40
Depart
Palmerston
North
11.50
Arrive
Wanganui 12.25
12.20
1.10 12.00
9.05
5.15 8.00
8.20
8.10 8.20 5.15 9.10
Depart
Wanganui 12.50
12.50
1.20 12.45
9.15
5.45 8.35
8.35
8.20
8.30
6.00
Arrive
New Plymouth 4.30
3.45
4.15 4.5
11.55
9.05 11.20 11.20 11.05
12.15 9.20
p.m.
p.m.
p.m. p.m.
p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m.
*The service does not run via the points marked by this sign.
p.m. p.m. p.m.
From New Plymouth to Wellington
Mon.
Mon. Mon.
Mon.
Fri. Sun. Sun. Sun. Mon.
Mon.
Sat. Mon.
Mon.
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
to
Sat.
Sat. Fri.
Fri.
Sat.
Fri.
Sat.
Sat.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
Inc.
a.m.
a.m.
p.m.
p.m.
p.m. p.m. p.m. a.m.
a.m. p.m.
p.m.
a.m.
p.m.
Depart
New Plymouth 9.00
9.00
2.45
5.40
2.45 2.00
2.30 8.45
8.00 1.15
2.30
Arrive
Wanganui 11.50
11.50 6.05
8.40
5.20
5.20
5.20 12.05
11.50 4.55 5.50
Depart
Wanganui 12.00
12.15
6.40 8.55
5.35
5.50
5.50
12.45
8.30
1.15
Depart
Arrive
(7/7/77)
Palmerston North 1.50
Wellington 4.20
10.10 12.15 8.55
9.10
9.10
4.15
3.40
p.m. p.m.
*The service does not run via the points marked by this sign.
12.20 5.15
p.m.
p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. a.m. p.m. p.m. p.m.
Prison Population
5. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Justice: What was the total prison
population at 31 March for each of the last 10 years, and what proportion of the population
does this represent in each case?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: The information requested is as
follows, and in each case "prisoners" include those in borstal, detention centre, and pre-
release hostels, but not periodic detention. Persons in prison awaiting trial or sentence are
also included.
Total number of prisoners at
31 March or date nearest
Ratio of prisoners to each
10,000 of the general popu-
lation at 31 March or date
nearest ...
1968
1 April
1969
31 March
1970
30 March
1971
29 March
1972
27 March
2 184
2.092
2 083
2576
2.696
7.98
7.57
7.46
8.96
(based on
9.37
23.3.71
census)


## p. 1817 (#273) ###########################################

3 August
1817
Questions and Replies
Total number of prisoners at
31 March or date nearest
Ratio of prisoners to each
10,000 of the general popu-
lation at 31 March or date
nearest ...
1973
1974
1975
2 April
1 April
31 March
1976
29 March
1977
28 March
2 544
2534
2 692
2 831
2.893
8.69
8.48
(7/7/77)
8.83
9.18
9.27
Maputo Declaration-Prime Minister's Speech
6. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Will he
give the full text of the speech made by the Prime Minister to the Commonwealth Heads of
Government Conference relating to the Maputo Declaration?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: The
Prime Minister's address was not made from a written text and the only record that exists is
that taken down during the conference itself, and as that is a classified document the relevant
text cannot be reproduced in a public statement. The Prime Minister has, however, given a
general indication of what he said. He indicated that he agreed that it was essential to put the
maximum psychological pressure on Mr Smith now if a peaceful solution was to be achieved.
He had concluded that New Zealand could support the Maputo Declaration as a means of
doing this. There were some minor difficulties in the text for New Zealand, but it provided a
basis from which the Heads of Government meeting could decide on an agreed line of
action.
(7/7/77)
Maputo Declaration-New Zealand Stance
7. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Will he
amplify his written answer to me, appearing as No. 11 on the Order Paper for 29 June, by
setting out in detail which provisions of the Maputo Declaration the Government supports,
which provisions it does not support, and what reservations it has to the declaration as a
whole?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: I do not
believe the document in question lends itself to the kind of clause-by-clause examination the
honourable member seems to require, but the following more detailed comment may serve
to answer his inquiry. As indicated in the reply referred to, the Government supports the
general thrust of the declaration and the objectives of the plan of action. The Government's
principal reservation is that the document reflects the belief of many nations that armed
struggle is a legitimate means of bringing about majority rule in Rhodesia and Namibia. A
number of other countries-and New Zealand is among them-remain opposed to armed
struggle and believe that the necessary changes can, and should, be brought about by
peaceful means. The attitudes and efforts of these countries are also accepted in the
document, and that is where it differs from other declarations and resolutions to which New
Zealand has not been able to give support. There are also a number of less fundamental
points which New Zealand cannot accept without some reservation. We do not, for instance,
believe that South-west Africa People's Organisation should be the only group that has a
right to take part in the independence process in Namibia. Nor has the Government yet
taken a position on the question of Walvis Bay, and it cannot, therefore, endorse the
declaration's assertion that Walvis Bay is an integral part of Namibia. In addition, there are
both technical legal obstacles and considerations of principle which prevent New Zealand
from responding positively to every extension of the sanctions against Rhodesia called for in
the text. Finally, many of us in New Zealand will have reservations about the extreme nature
of some of the terminology used. These reservations are not without substance, but in the
Government's view they in no way invalidate its support for the overall objectives reflected
in the document.
(7/7/77)
Family Health Counselling Centres
8. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Health: Can he indicate what
progress has been made toward implementing the provision in the Hospitals Amendment
Act 1976 for the establishment of family health counselling centres?


## p. 1818 (#274) ###########################################

1818
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: It will be recalled that initially major
hospital boards were asked to consider setting up a family health counselling centre, and
other boards were advised that any relevant proposal would receive careful consideration.
Planning is going ahead in the normal working machinery of seven major hospital boards,
and discussions have taken place with a number of smaller boards. Proposals range from
board approval in principle for establishing a counselling centre in South Auckland to the
sponsoring of training courses. The Southland Hospital Board has joined with a voluntary
organisation in Gore to provide a co-ordinated service at an existing centre.
(7/7/77)
Beer and Cigarette Tax Estimates
9. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Statistics: Have any
estimates been made, and, if so, would he give them, of how much in total per annum extra
consumers would have to pay if the Government imposed a le increase in the price of a glass
of beer and a lc increase in the price of a pack of 20 cigarettes?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: No such estimate had been
made before the honourable member's question. For his information, the Government
Statistician estimated that the total extra expenditure per annum would amount to about $24
million. This assumes that a price rise equivalent to the lc per glass was also to be imposed
on beer sold by the flagon or jug, and on bottled beer, and that the level of total
consumption of beer and of tobacco was not affected by the increases in price. To the extent
that such price increases might depress the total level of consumption, the total extra would
be less than that estimated above. If the estimate of personal consumption of $7,465 million
for 1976-77, prepared by the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research, were to prove
approximately valid, the extra payment for a glass of beer and a pack of cigarettes would add
0.3 percent to expenditure on personal consumption.
(7/7/77)
Art Students' Fees
10. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Is he aware that at
Freyberg High School, Palmerston North, third and fourth form art students are now
required to pay $1 per term for art courses and that other students are required to pay $4 a
year, and, if so, does he know how widespread this situation is?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I am aware that pupils at Freyberg
High School pay a small fee towards the cost of art materials in excess of core requirements.
A similar system operates in many secondary schools, particularly where the completed art
and crafts work becomes the property of the pupils.
(7/7/77)
Urban Transport-Government Assistance
11. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Transport: In view of the serious
economic situation public transport operators are currently facing: (a) can he tell the House
what plans the Government has to assist public transport operators, and what plans he has to
proceed with the bus replacement programme; and (b) can he tell the House what steps he
has taken to encourage the greater utilisation of public transport and to discourage the use of
private motor vehicles?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: As the member will be
aware, I established an officials committee last year to study the financial and organisational
requirements for urban transport in the main centres. The committee has now presented its
report to the Government, and it is being carefully studied. Any plans the Government may
have to assist public transport operators and encourage the greater utilisation of public
transport will be announced when this examination of the report is complete.
(7/7/77)
Railway Engine Drivers
12. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Railways: Can he tell the
House how many locomotive and railcar engine drivers have emigrated from New Zealand
in the last 12 months, and (a) how many of these have gone to Australia, and (b) what steps
has he taken to train replacements, and does the Railways Department have a sufficient
number of engine drivers at present?


## p. 1819 (#275) ###########################################

3 August
1819
Questions and Replies
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: In the past 12 months 22
engine drivers have resigned from the service to take up employment in Australia, with the
Mt. Newman Mining Co., the Hammersley Iron Co., or the Goldsworthy Mining Co. In
October 1976 a new training scheme was introduced to provide staff with the practical
experience and theoretical tuition necessary to qualify as engine drivers in the shortest
acceptable period. One hundred and eight employees are at present in training, and it is
expected that the first will qualify as engine drivers in September this year. This training
scheme is a continuing exercise and will serve to alleviate the shortage of engine drivers in
some areas and provide replacements for future losses through retirements, resignations,
and promotions to supervisory positions. The shortage of engine drivers is mainly in
Auckland, Wellington, and Christchurch, and is due to a reluctance of members to transfer
to these localities. This attitude is, of course, not confined to locomotive running staff.
(7/7/77)
Civil Aviation-NAC and Air New Zealand Co-operation
13. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services: Has he seen the Trans Tasman news sheet dated 9 June in which the
General Manager of NAC, Mr D. A. Patterson, is quoted as suggesting that if airline costs,
notably fuel, continued to rise at present rates some form of merger of the operations of
NAC and Air New Zealand might be warranted; and, if so, does the Government agree that
such a merger is desirable, and to what extent?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: I have seen the text of Mr Patterson's speech and agree that fuel costs are reaching
a level where, to maintain maximum savings to the traveller, each aircraft must be fully
utilised. The management of both Air New Zealand and NAC are encouraged to explore
every avenue where combined action can achieve cost savings. A special committee chaired
by the Secretary for Transport and known as the Joint Airline Co-ordinating Committee is
also charged with this responsibility.
(7/7/77)
Railways-Tradesmen's Wage Relativity
14. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Railways: In view of the
present critical situation brought about by the loss of tradesmen in the railway workshops,
why has the department failed to retain remuneration relativity for the key trade
groups-welders, armature winders, grade I iron machinists, instrument mechanics, and
relay mechanics?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: The relativity between
tradesmen and semi-skilled groups such as welders, armature winders, grade I iron machin-
ists, instrument mechanics, and relay mechanics has not yet been established. By agreement
between the parties the wage rates of these semi-skilled employees have not been increased
by the recent ruling rate survey, and the question of the appropriate relativity has been
placed in the hands of an independent arbitrator for adjudication. The independent
arbitrator's decision is expected soon.
(7/7/77)
Railways-Transport Efficiency
15. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Railways: Has he seen the report in
the Christchurch Star of 1 June 1977, in which a senior lecturer in mechanical engineering
claims that in terms of energy used to transport given amounts of weight, railways are more
than 9 times as efficient as trucks and vans, 137 times as efficient as private cars, and 205.5
times as efficient as aircraft", and has he taken steps to seek further information on the
claims made?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: Yes, I have seen the report
referred to. I have not taken any steps to obtain further information as both my department
and myself are aware that, in terms of energy used, railways are more efficient than road or
air, although perhaps not to the extent enunciated in the article referred to. I would refer the
honourable member to pages 17 and 18 of the Railways Department's annual report for the
year ended 31 March 1974, where this subject was discussed.
(7/7/77)


## p. 1820 (#276) ###########################################

1820
3 August
Questions and Replies
Urban Transport-Officials Committee Report
16. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Transport: When will the
Government release the Government officials report on public passenger transport to the
public so that it can be studied and commented on?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: As I have already informed
the House, the report of the Officials Committee on Urban Transport is at present being
studied closely by the Government. Any decision on the release of the report to the public
will be made when that examination has been completed.
(7/7/77)
Personal Income Distribution
17. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister of Finance: What is the
Treasury estimate of the present income distribution, broken down both by family size and
by income in $1,000 divisions from $0 to $25,000-plus per annum?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance) replied: There is no official
Treasury estimate of the present distribution of personal incomes. In its analyses Treasury
uses the following data published by the Government Statistician: (1) Income Trends, an
annual supplement to the Monthly Abstract of Statistics: (2) Incomes and Income Tax, an
annual publication; (3) 5-yearly Census of Population and Dwellings-the provisional
statistics from the 1976 census are now available, and this is the main source of family income
distributions; (4) the annual household sample survey is aimed primarily at surveying
household expenditure, but also includes data on household incomes.
(7/7/77)
Energy Resources-Percentage Costs
18. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: What is the
percentage cost of imported industrial fuel oil to: (a) electricity; (b) natural gas; and (c) coal,
in mid 1973, December 1975, and the latest available prices, when related to the New
Zealand retail prices?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: The effective percentage
relationships between industrial fuels for heat output, as sought by the member, are given
below. The figures for December 1975 are those ruling on the day that the previous"
Government vacated office.
Mid
December
July
1973
1975
1977
Fuel oil
Electricity
100
100
100
330
140
182
Natural gas
130
55
74
Coal
150
65
68
The earlier figures are approximate.
(7/7/77)
Housing Corporation Loans-Greymouth
19. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Minister of Housing: How many applica-
tions were received, and how many Housing Corporation loans were authorised, in
Greymouth to (a) build and (b) purchase houses in the March years ended 1975, 1976, and
1977, and could he confirm in each case how many of these loan authorisations included low-
income supplements and family benefit capitalisations?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: Details of Housing Corporation
loan applications and authorisations for Greymouth are set out below. Erect and purchase
authorisations for the March 1975 year are not readily available. Low-income supplements
and family benefit capitalisation authorisations are not recorded separately for a suboffice;
the gross family benefit capitalisation figures relate to applications only.


## p. 1821 (#277) ###########################################

3 August
1821
Questions and Replies
March Year
Applications
Erect
Purchase
Erect
Authorisations
Purchase
Family Benefit
Capitalisation
Applications
Only
1975 ...
1976 ...
1977 ...
586
67
63
52
48
8888
82
(Incorporated in Nelson
branch figure)
68
13
22
12
11
982
59
52
23
(7/7/77)
National Research Advisory Council Report
20. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Science and
Technology: Why has the report of the National Research Advisory Council on the
organisation of government agricultural research not yet been published, and when can it be
expected?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Science and Technology) replied: All reports of the
National Research Advisory Council and its advisory committees are made in terms of the
council's statutory responsibility to advise the Minister of Science and Technology, and they
remain confidential unless released by the Government. This has been the practice of
successive governments. I have asked the council to reconsider various aspects of the report,
and until I formally hear the outcome of its re-examination I am unable to say whether, or
when, the report may be published.
(7/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-West Coast
21. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What
was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the West Coast regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and what are
the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $105,107 was approved for the
West Coast region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year) were $371,000*. Comparative figures for 1975-76 are
$266,562 and $546,000. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a more cautious
approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall economic
situation.
"DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(7/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-South Canterbury
22. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
What was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Southern
Canterbury regional development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much
Development Finance Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same
period, and what are the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $54,724 was approved for the
southern Canterbury region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development
Finance Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $733,000*. Comparative figures
for 1975-76 are $122,494 and $1,920,000*. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(7/7/77)


## p. 1822 (#278) ###########################################

1822
3 August
Questions and Replies
Gross Earnings-Ratio to Price Increases
23. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Finance: In view of the Institute of
Economic Research prediction that inflation will continue and average 15 percent for the
year to next March, what increase in gross wages will the family man with a non-working
wife and two children under 5 years need to maintain his standard of living if on 1 April 1977
he was on: (a) $120; and (b) $129.21; and what further increase will be needed in gross
earnings to compensate for the effect of inflation on the family benefit?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance) replied: The New Zealand
Institute of Economic Research's "assumption that the March year 1978 average rate of
inflation as measured by the CPI will be 15 percent" (page 9, June 1977 quarterly
predictions) does not mean that the CPI will increase by 15 percent between March 1977 and
March 1978. What it does mean is that the average CPI for the year to March 1978 is
assumed to be 15 percent higher than the average CPI for the year to March 1977. In theory,
then, if one were to use a calculation based on a 15 percent projected increase in prices
between March 1977 and March 1978, the increase would be: (a) $30.94, or 25.8 percent;
and (b) $30.46, or 23.6 percent. The further increases on the family benefit would be $1.81 in
the first case and $1.86 in the second, or 1.2 percent in both cases.
(8/7/77)
Teachers-Clydemore, East Tamaki, and Mayfield Primary Schools
24. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister of Education: Why is there a
reduction in both teacher-aid hours and the number of permanent teachers employed at
Clydemore, East Tamaki, and Mayfield primary schools, when there is an increase in the
total roll and in the number of Maori and Pacific Island children on the roll?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The rolls of the three schools have
not increased as stated in the question, but have in fact declined. Actual rolls for the schools
in 1976 and 1977 are:
Clydemore
East Tamaki
Mayfield
1976
1977
Grade 7D
546
Grade 7C
517
Grade 7H
689
Grade 7F
629
Grade 71
748
Grade 7H
703
There has been a decrease in the total number of teachers in each school, but not in the
number of permanently appointed teachers. Figures for each of the 2 years are:
Clydemore
East Tamaki
Mayfield
1976
Permanent
1976
1977
Permanent
1977
Staffing
Entitlement
Actual
Staffing
Actual
Staffing
Entitlement
Staffing
18
22
21.4
21.4
22
28
24.6
25.8
23
30
27.7
28.7
The teachers above entitlement in 1976 were placed in the schools for 1 year under the
authority of regulations for various discretionary purposes, including the move towards 1:20
ratios in infant classes implemented by the Labour administration. Staffing in 1977 is by
entitlement under the new primary staffing scheme with a 20 percent roll loading to meet
special educational needs. It is significant that in the three schools the quality of staffing has
improved in 1977. At Clydemore the principal's position has risen from salary scale D1 to
D2, and one B2 position has been upgraded to B3. At East Tamaki two B3 positions have
been upgraded to C1 positions. At Mayfield the principal's position has been upgraded from
D2 to D2 plus overlarge allowance. The principals of the schools gave greater priority to the
quality of staff than to the number of staff. The basic entitlement to ancillary staff, including
teacher aids, has decreased in Clydemore and East Tamaki schools by 5 hours because of the
drop in roll numbers. Entitlement is unchanged in Mayfield. Clydemore has been allocated 5
hours of discretionary ancillary staffing above actual entitlement in 1977 which restores the
total to the same level as in 1976. Both East Tamaki and Mayfield schools have received 8
hours of discretionary ancillary staffing in 1976 and 1977.
(8/7/77)


## p. 1823 (#279) ###########################################

3 August
1823
Questions and Replies
Import Barriers to Primary Products
25. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade:
Could he list all barriers to imports of foreign primary produce into New Zealand?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: There are
three main factors which could influence imports of foreign primary produce into New
Zealand: import licensing, tariffs, and quarantine measures. Import licensing restrictions
apply mainly to primary produce which has been processed or prepared in some form, or
packaged for sale—the aim being the protection of New Zealand's processing industries.
Basic primary products generally have unrestricted access. For example, there are no
licensing restrictions on unprocessed wool, fresh or frozen meat and edible offals, fresh milk
and cream, or milk and cream preserved in solid form, butter, cheese, eggs, raw coffee, rice,
tea, raw sugar and molasses, and raw cocoa. A similar situation exists on tariffs, most duties
on unprocessed primary products being low. In the few areas where tariffs are levied, they
are moderate by international standards. Many duties on primary products were lowered
with the phasing out of the British preferential tariff. Quarantine measures taken by New
Zealand are considered essential to maintain the present disease-free environment on which
our major agricultural product exports depend.
(19/7/77)
Disabled Young Persons-Research into Needs
26. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In view
of the concern expressed recently by many people working with younger physically disabled
persons, does he intend to take up the statutory obligations embodied in section 8 (2) (c) of
the Disabled Persons Community Welfare Act 1975, and appoint a person or persons to
carry out research into the needs of these young people in the community?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Section 8 of the Disabled
Persons Community Welfare Act relates to the functions of the Advisory Council for the
Community Welfare of Disabled Persons. Subsection (2) (c) provides that the advisory
council may make recommendations to the Minister on any matters relating to "areas of
investigation for research into aspects relating to the welfare in the community of disabled
persons". I have yet to receive any recommendations from the advisory council in this
regard. However, I understand that the advisory council has very recently held discussions
with researchers who are interested in examining the needs of the physically disabled. If
support from my department is to be sought, I have no doubt the advisory council will be
making recommendations to me in terms of section 8 (2) (c).
(19/7/77)
Marriage Counselling for Domestic Purposes Benefit Applicants
27. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In view
of the report in the Christchurch Press, 23 May 1977, that Cabinet approval has already been
given for more social workers to be employed to assist in the counselling of marriage
partners when an application for a domestic purposes benefit is made, can he say: (a) when
recruitment will commence; (b) how many social workers will be employed; (c) what
provisions are being made to ensure that adequate training in counselling will be given; and
(d) from where will these social workers be recruited?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The department's social
workers will not be engaged in direct marriage guidance counselling. Discussions have
commenced with the National Marriage Guidance Council to assist in marriage counselling
work in appropriate cases. Additional positions are being established within the department
for extended interviewing procedures and to assist in liaison with the Marriage Guidance
Council. Approximately 70 staff will be required for the new interviewing procedures, and
appropriately experienced staff are now being selected within the department. The majority
of the interviewing officers will be appointed from experienced benefits staff. A smaller
number of additional social workers will be appointed to provide social work back-up. The
final numbers in each group will not be known until each new district establishment is
approved. Their positions will be filled from the recent staff approvals. Staff selected will be
given appropriate training in the particular responsibilities involved.
(19/7/77)


## p. 1824 (#280) ###########################################

1824
3 August
Questions and Replies
War Service Pensions
28. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Would he
enumerate the "several little perks" which he alleged war veterans were receiving when he
was talking on Radio i talkback on Tuesday, 28 June?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: A person receiving a war
veteran's allowance or a war service pension may elect to forgo his war pension and fringe
benefits and transfer to national superannuation if he can meet the eligibility criteria. If he
elects to remain on his war pension, the various fringe benefits he would automatically retain
include: (a) an age supplement of $1.50 a week on attaining age 65 for both the pensioner
and his wife; (b) a war veteran's gratuity paid regardless of financial circumstances, for the
widow payable for 2 years after the veteran's death (current maximum rate of the gratuity is
$3,127.80 a year) or, in the case of the widow of a war service pensioner, either a gratuity
payable for 6 months after the pensioner's death (current maximum rate $3,484 a year) or a
lump sum payment equal to one-quarter of the annual rate of war service pension payable in
respect of the pensioner and his wife at the time of the pensioner's death; (c) education
bursaries for children; (d) entitlement to the telephone and television concessions; and (e)
full entitlement to additional benefit under the existing criteria.
(19/7/77)
Trade Commission, Bangkok-Criticism
29. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade: What was the
outcome of an inquiry by the head office of his department into criticism of the New Zealand
Trade Commission in Bangkok by a New Zealand business consultant resident in Thailand,
Mr Dick Wood, which was sought in March?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Overseas Trade) replied: The
outcome was reported in the Evening Post of 24 March. Mr Wood took up Mr Talboys offer
to meet him, and I understand that some points of misunderstanding were cleared up.
(19/7/77)
Maui Gas-Target Date
30. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: On what
date is it now expected that the natural gas and condensate from the Maui field will come on-
stream?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: It is not now expected that the
target date of 1 October 1978 will be met, and I will not have a new date until a current
assessment of the effect of delays in the construction programme has been completed. I am
still hopeful, however, that delivery of gas and condensate could commence in the first
quarter of 1979.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-King Country
31.Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What was the
total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the King Country regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977 and how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period and what are the
comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $18,561 was approved for the
King Country region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $155,000*. Comparative figures for 1975-
76 are $102,406 and $600,000. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a more
cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)


## p. 1825 (#281) ###########################################

3 August
1825
Questions and Replies
Regional Development Assistance-Wanganui
32. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What was
the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Wanganui regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977 and how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period and what are the
comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $271,784 was approved for the
Wanganui region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $1,576,000". Comparative figures for
1975-76 are $206,999 and $1.9 million The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
"DFC loan approvals figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance—Taranaki
33. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What was
the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Taranaki regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977 and how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period and what are the
comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $63,559 was approved for the
Taranaki region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $986,000*. Comparative figures for
1975-76 are $116,915 and $1.9 million*. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
"DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-Southland
34. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
What was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Southland
regional development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development
Finance Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and
what are the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $443,760 was approved for the
Southland region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $1.87 million. Comparative figures for
1975-76 are $211,439 and $3.4 million. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Primary Produce Exports
35. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade: Can he provide a
table showing exports of meat, dairy products, and wool to markets other than the United
Kingdom for the March years, 1974, 1975, 1976, and 1977?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Overseas Trade) replied: Using
overseas exchange transaction statistics supplied by the Reserve Bank, the value of exports
of meat, dairy products, and wool to markets other than the United Kingdom for the March
years 1974, 1975, 1976, and 1977 is as follows:


## p. 1826 (#282) ###########################################

1826
3 August
Questions and Replies
United Kingdom
Other
Total
Dairy products-
1974 ...
121.4
185.0
306.4
1975
98.0
215.1
313.1
1976
161.5
288.5
450.0
1977
198.5
333.8
532.3
Meat-
1974 ..
193.0
406.8
599.8
1975
166.9
328.4
495.3
1976
211.6
389.7
601.3
1977
239.0
560.7
799.7
Wool-
1974 ...
70.8
344.5
415.3
1975 ..
50.4
244.8
295.2
1976 ...
62.7
347.8
410.5
1977 ...
110.6
577.8
688.4
NOTE: All figures are in NZSmillion.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-Otago
36. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
What was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Otago
regional development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development
Finance Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and
what are the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $367,200 was approved for the
Otago region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $2,644,000*. Comparative figures for
1975-96 are $890,493 and $3.4 million". The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
"DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-Northland
37. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What
was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Northland regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and what are
the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $41,466 was approved for the
Northland region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were by $1.3 million". Comparative figures for
1975-76 are $259,387 and $1.3 million. The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a
more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-Wairarapa
38. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What
was the total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Wairarapa regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and what are
the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?


## p. 1827 (#283) ###########################################

3 August
1827
Questions and Replies
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $60,320 was approved for the
Wairarapa region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $406,000*. Comparative figures for 1975-
76 are $124,164 and $400,000". The lower level of approvals in 1976-77 reflects a more
cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(19/7/77)
Wainuiomata Hill-Java Tunnelling Machine
39. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Are
there any technical reasons why the unutilised Java tunnelling machine cannot be used to
construct a rail or road tunnel through the Wainuiomata hill?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The method of
construction which should be adopted for a tunnelling project such as the Wainuiomata Hill
is dependent on many technical factors, and the availability of any tunnelling machines
would certainly be taken into account. In this case the Java machine would not be of suitable
size for a road tunnel.
(19/7/77)
Wainuiomata Hill Road-Upgrading
40. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Would
he outline the decision and administrative procedures that would be required to get a
commitment and a financial allocation to upgrade the Wainuiomata hill road, with particular
reference to ministerial or Government responsibility?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: Any decision on the
allocation of funds to the Wainuiomata hill road is one for the National Roads Board, not
the Government or a Minister.
(19/7/77)
Post Office Closures
41. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Postmaster-General: How many country post
offices have been closed down over the last 5 years, and, if any, could he give the dates of the
closures?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: Ninety-nine country post offices
have been closed during the last 5 years. The post offices in question, and the effective date
that each one closed, are shown below:
Office
Hexton
Papakaio
Elsthorpe
Omanaia
Waikiekie
Hukarere
Mangatoki
Postal District
Gisborne
Oamaru
Napier
Whangarei
Whangarei
Greymouth
New Plymouth
Invercargill
Fairfax
Turakina South
Otipua
Hinakura
Waiomatatini
Wanganui
Timaru
Te Whaiti
Weber
Kopu
Whakaangiangi
Muriwai
Ohawe Beach
Pokere
Masterton
Gisborne
Rotorua
Palmerston North
Thames
Gisborne
Gisborne
New Plymouth
Whangarei
Effective Date
14 July 1972
28 July 1972
31 July 1972
18 August 1972
21 August 1972
24 August 1972
25 August 1972
25 August 1972
8 September 1972
29 September 1972
3 October 1972
30 November 1972
30 November 1972
31 December 1972
30 March 1973
27 April 1973
31 March 1973
22 May 1973
20 July 1973


## p. 1828 (#284) ###########################################

1828
3 August
Questions and Replies
Office
Pipiriki
Omata
Ahititi
East Cape
Springburn
Tangoio
Glen Afton
Red Beach
Waimate North
Lovells Flat
Postal District
Wanganui
New Plymouth
New Plymouth
Gisborne
Christchurch
Napier
Hamilton
Effective Date
31 July 1973
29 August 1973
29 August 1973
31 August 1973
31 August 1973
18 September 1973
12 October 1973
17 October 1973
Auckland
Whangarei
31 October 1973
Matauri Bay
Dunedin
Whangarei
Hurleyville
Omaui
Wanganui
Invercargill
Milburn
Dunedin
Waitaki
Oamaru
Kawerau Mill
Rotorua
Kumara Railway
Greymouth
Kinleith
Hamilton
Pakiri
Auckland
Awaroa
Spencerville
Romahapa
Fairdown
Colac Bay
Waitakaro
Chatto Creek
Dunedin
Eureka
Hamilton
Auckland
Christchurch
Dunedin
Westport
Invercargill
Gisborne
3 December 1973
7 December 1973
31 January 1974
22 February 1974
11 April 1974
31 May 1974
10 June 1974
1 June 1974
31 May 1974
4 June 1974
30 September 1974
16 February 1974
30 August 1974
31 December 1974
1 December 1974
31 August 1974
31 January 1975
7 February 1975
Kakatahi
Wanganui
Te Kinga
Greymouth
Waipaoa
Gisborne
7 February 1975
28 February 1975
28 February 1975
Te Anga
Hamilton
Maxwell
Wanganui
21 March 1975
27 March 1975
Greenhills
Invercargill
27 March 1975
Whangaroa
Whangarei
27 March 1975
Mangarakau
Nelson
30 April 1975
Tongaporutu
New Plymouth
30 April 1975
Invercargill
2 May 1975
31 July 1975
Lochiel
Allanton
Pahia
Market Cross
Oroua Downs
Ahimia
Maraekakaho
Dunedin
Invercargill
Westport
Palmerston North
Thames
Napier
Blenheim
St Omer
Tamahere
Georgetown
Whirinaki
The Gorge
Leithfield
Taringamotu
Inaha
Kinohaku
Mohaka
Royal Bush
Otaua
Bennetts
Manutahi
Taupaki
Ahuroa
Motuti
Hamilton
Oamaru
Whangarei
Invercargill
Christchurch
Hamilton
New Plymouth
Hamilton
Napier
Invercargill
31 July 1975
4 August 1975
20 August 1975
2 October 1975
3 October 1975
24 December 1975
25 December 1975
31 March 1975
28 February 1975
7 November 1975
31 January 1976
27 February 1976
31 March 1976
31 March 1976
31 March 1976
4 June 1976
25 June 1976
Auckland
Christchurch
30 June 1976
Wanganui
Auckland
Auckland
Whangarei
30 June 1976
6 August 1976
13 August 1976
3 September 1976


## p. 1829 (#285) ###########################################

3 August
1829
Questions and Replies
Office
Puketitiri
Endeavour Inlet
Mahitahi
Stanmore Bay
Awatuna
Mangatainoko
Te Whetu
Rissington
Postal District
Napier
Blenheim
Greymouth
Auckland
Effective Date
15 September 1976
30 September 1976
11 October 1976
22 October 1976
New Plymouth
28 October 1976
Palmerston North
29 October 1976
Hamilton
29 October 1976
Wairakei
Cronadun
Ngawha
Grants Braes
Otehei Bay
Napier
Rotorua
Greymouth
Whangarei
Dunedin
Whangarei
30 November 1976
30 November 1976
31 December 1976
21 January 1977
15 February 1977
30 March 1977
Weymouth
Auckland
30 March 1977
Inangahua Landing
Westport
15 April 1977
Kakaramea
Wanganui
Maungaturoto Railway
Whangarei
Kaituna
Blenheim
22 April 1977
6 May 1977
31 March 1977
Raurimu
Hamilton
Waimatuku
Invercargill
31 May 1977
16 June 1977
The number of post offices closed in each year was: 1972, 14 (from 1 July); 1973, 16; 1974,
14; 1975, 23; 1976, 22; and 1977, 10 (to 30 June).
(19/7/77)
Health Centre-Lyttelton
42. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Health: When is
it proposed to commence building the health centre previously approved for Lyttelton?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: It was expected that construction of the
health centre would commence early in 1978. Although planning is well advanced, it is not
possible to give an estimated date for commencement of construction until reservations on
the proposed rental by doctors occupying the centre and the financial involvement of the
Waterfront Industry Commission in respect to the occupational health facilities in the centre
are resolved.
(19/7/77)
Police Offences Statistics-Increase
43. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Police: How many
offences were reported to the police during the March year 1977, and what was the increase
in numbers and percentage over the previous year?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: Police offences statistics are
recorded on a calendar-year basis, and for the 1976 year they totalled 243 348, which was an
increase of 9704 (4.15 percent) over the 1975 year. The 1975 total of 233 644 represented an
8 percent increase over the 1974 figure.
(19/7/77)
Post-primary School Site-Christchurch
44. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Education: What
progress has been made towards providing a post-primary school for the children of the
south-eastern suburbs of Christchurch?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The original proposal to acquire a
secondary school site in Charlesworth Street has been superseded. A new proposal to
acquire secondary and intermediate school sites has been recently approved by the Govern-
ment, and the necessary action to acquire the land is under way. This is a joint venture by my
department, the Housing Corporation, and the Christchurch City Council. It will involve
acquisition of a block of land, in the same locality as originally proposed, and its develop-
ment to provide housing sections, a recreational area, and secondary and intermediate
school sites.
(19/7/77)


## p. 1830 (#286) ###########################################

1830
3 August
Questions and Replies
Broadlands Power Station-Progress
45. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Electricity: What stage has been
reached on the work of planning the Broadlands 150 MW power station?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity) replied: Preparation of an environmental
impact report on the Broadlands power station proposal is now well under way. It is hoped
to publish the report in August 1977. Once the audit is received, applications will be made
for the necessary statutory clearances. The present programme proposes that Government
approval to construct the station will be sought in April 1978.
(19/7/77)
TV2-Coverage Programme
46. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: (a) Can he advise how
the programme to extend TV2 coverage to those parts of the country that are at present
unable to receive TV2 transmission is progressing; (b) can he advise how many transmitter
stations that are partly completed have been unable to go ahead because of restrictions in
expenditure imposed since December 1975, and can he indicate the location of each of these
transmitters; and (c) can he indicate in the case of each of these transmitters (i) how much
has been spent so far, and (ii) how much will need to be spent in each case before the station
can transmit?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied: (a) The development
programme to extend TV2 coverage to areas without that service is generally proceeding on
schedule. At the present time permanent TV2 systems cover 73.5 percent of the population,
with pilot systems providing for a further 3.6 percent. In total just under 2 500 000 viewers
have the service available to them. In the present financial year it is planned to provide
service in the Wairarapa, Hawke's Bay, and Gisborne areas, bringing coverage up to about
83 percent of the population. (b) and (c). The only station that might possibly be placed in
the category is the transmitter on Mt. Egmont, which is to be upgraded to improve TV1
service and where the sum of $337,000 has been spent and expenditure of a further $87,000 is
required. However, within the available resources of finance and manpower this develop-
ment is not considered to have the same degree of urgency as other areas like those referred
to above which have a very inadequate or non-existent service from TV2.
(19/7/77)
Special Work Employees
47. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of State Services: (a) How many special
work employees were there in each Government department respectively, as at 31 January
1976; (b) how many special work employees were there in each Government department
respectively, as at 30 April 1977; (c) can he confirm that special work employees are not
included within the approved staff ceilings of any Government department; and (d) does the
number of special work employees since 31 January 1976 exceed the number of reductions in
staff ceilings made between 31 January 1976 and 30 April 1977?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services) replied: (1) The number of special work
employees in each Government department as at 31 January 1976 and at 30 April 1977 are
shown on the table below:
Number Of Special Works Employees As At
31 January 1976
30 April 1977
Department
Clerical
and
Labourers
Total
Related
Clerical
and
Related
Labourers
Total
Agriculture and Fisheries
76
133
209
145
90
235
Audit
Crown Law
Customs
2
2
1
1
Defence
66
109
175
187
88
275
Education...
21
21
33
2
35
Electricity...
24
93
117
20
103
123
Energy Resources
Environment
Foreign Affairs
Forest Service
11
565
576
27
864
891
Government Life
2
Government Printing Office
13
13
3
23
2
3


## p. 1831 (#287) ###########################################

3 August
1831
Questions and Replies
Number Of Special Works Employees As At
31 January 1976
30 April 1977
Clerical
Department
and
Labourers
Total
Related
Clerical
and
Related
Labourers
Total
Health
13
1
14
9
9
Housing Corporation
7
7
1
1
Inland Revenue
77
77
Internal Affairs
15
19
34
Justice
33
33
Labour
60
60
Lands and Survey
25
397
422
Maori Affairs
12
100
112
Mines
8
8
National Library
Police
26
33
Prime Minister's
Public Trust
Scientific and Industrial
Research
34
34
Social Welfare
82
1
8888
State Insurance
+བ%8སྶའ༔ !-'' 8g-
147
147
11
23
34
97
97
100
100
52
493
545
13
138
151
9
9
30
13
43
ان
68
136
33
169
83
104
31
135
1
State Services Commission
Statistics
Tourist and Publicity
Trade and Industry..
Transport...
Treasury
Valuation...
Works and Development
Totals
11
2
1
31
3
34
20
22
2
2
39
39
9
50
687
737
39
776
815
720
2,168
2,888
1,189
2,675
3,864
(2) Special workers are not included in staff ceilings. (3) Yes.
(19/7/77)
War Pensioners—Continuation of Fringe Benefits
48. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister in Charge of War Pensions:
What action is the Government taking to ensure the continuation of the advantages which
war veteran beneficiaries have over other pensioners, and can he guarantee the continuity of
current fringe benefits for ex-servicemen on the war veterans' allowances?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister in Charge of War Pensions) replied: No special
action is necessary. The Government is continuing the current fringe benefits for those
receiving war veterans' allowances, and there is no suggestion that these will be withdrawn.
(20/7/77)
Regional Development Assistance-Marlborough
49. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What was the
total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the Marlborough regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977 and how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period and what are the
comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $108,762 was approved for the
Marlborough region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $1,233,000. Comparative figures for
1975-76 are nil and $100,000*. The lower level of approvals in New Zealand in 1976-77
reflects a more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in consideration of the
overall economic situation. However, in the Marlborough area several worth-while propos-
als were put forward in contrast to the national trend, and this resulted in a considerable
increase in assistance for that region over the previous year. This illustrates the Govern-
ment's willingness to assist where projects come forward.
"DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(20/7/77)


## p. 1832 (#288) ###########################################

1832
3 August
Questions and Replies
Regional Development Assistance-East Coast
50. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Regional Development: What was the
total amount spent from the Regional Development vote for the East Coast regional
development district for the year ended 31 March 1977, how much Development Finance
Corporation loan money was injected into that area during the same period, and what are
the comparative figures for the year ended 31 March 1976?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: For the year ended 31
March 1977, regional development assistance amounting to $147,000 was approved for the
East Coast region. Loan approvals for the region in 1976-77 by the Development Finance
Corporation (compiled on a June year basis) were $627,000*. Comparative figures for
1975-76 are $109,974 and $100,000*. The lower level of approvals in New Zealand in
1976-77 reflects a more cautious approach to investment by the private sector in considera-
tion of the overall economic situation. However, in the East Coast region several worth-
while projects were put forward in contrast to the national trend, and this resulted in a
considerable increase in assistance for that region over the previous year. This illustrates the
Government's willingness to assist, where projects come forward.
*DFC loan approval figures include regional development and export suspensory loans.
(20/7/77)
Wainuiomata Road Upgrading
51. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Would
there be any other community so inadequately served or so dependent on road access as
Wainuiomata, and when will this road be accorded a priority rating that would ensure an
early start on upgrading the present road and the construction of an alternative outlet road?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The matter of
adequacy or otherwise of roading access is one on which strong local views are often held,
and relativity of needs is not easy to assess. However, the case for improving access to
Wainuiomata is well recognised by the National Roads Board and consideration was given to
its approval when the estimates were recently considered. Regrettably, the board was unable
to give approval to the work at this stage but it did recommend that the preparation of plans
should be carried through to completion.
(20/7/77)
Vietnam Veterans-Rehabilitation Loans
52. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister in Charge of
Rehabilitation: How many Vietnam veterans qualified and received rehabilitation loans for
farms and homes?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister in Charge of Rehabilitation) replied: Farming loans
were not made available for ex-servicemen who served in Vietnam. The extent of the
concessions available for this purpose for Vietnam veterans is by way of preference in farm
ballots conducted by the Department of Lands and Survey. Separate statistics according to
the area of conflict are not compiled and it is not therefore possible to state the number of
Vietnam veterans who have qualified for and received housing loans. However, I can tell the
honourable member that in the year ended 31 March 1977 a total of 484 rehabilitation
housing loans were approved. These had a value of $6,045,485. Because of the time lapse
since previous conflicts, all of these loans could reasonably be assumed to have been granted
to servicemen who served in South-east Asia.
(20/7/77)
Foster Care Children
53. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How
many children are at present in foster care either as State wards or under voluntary
agreement, and what percentage of these children are cared for by foster parents?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: At 31 December 1976 a total of
6871 children and young persons were under the care of the Director-General of Social
Welfare, and of these 3502, or 51 percent, were being cared for in foster homes, 2877 in
private foster homes, and 625 in departmental family homes. These are the latest statistics
available.
(20/7/77)


## p. 1833 (#289) ###########################################

3 August
1833
Questions and Replies
Foster Care Children-Court Appearances
54. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What
percentage of children in foster care appeared before children's boards or children and
young persons courts in the years 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Children's boards and the
children and young persons courts came into operation from 1 April 1975. Statistics,
therefore, can be given only for periods after that date. During the period 1 April 1975 to 31
December 1975 a total of 53 children and young persons in foster homes appeared before a
children's board or a children and young persons court. This represented about 1.5 percent
of all children in foster care in 1975. During the period 1 January 1976 to 31 December 1976
a total of 109 children or young persons in foster homes appeared before a children's board
or a children and young persons court. This represents about 3 percent of all children in
foster care in 1976.
(20/7/77)
Geothermal Energy Development
55. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Works and Development: What
proposals are there for the further investigative drilling for geothermal energy in the
Waiotapu, Orakei, Korako, Tauhara, Rotokawa, Te Kopia, or Ngawha areas during the
current or next financial years?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The Government is
pursuing an active geothermal development programme, which over the next 2 to 3 years
includes investigation of a small number of wells at Kawerau, the main effort being
concentrated at Ngawha and Tikitere. Drilling at Waiotapu, Orakei, Korako, and Te Kopia
will follow, depending on the results obtained in the other areas. Wells may be drilled at
Tauhara and Rotokawa in the next 2 years, but only if required to supply industry.
(20/7/77)
Post Office Staff Numbers
56. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Postmaster-General: (a) What alterations have
there been in Post Office staff numbers since 31 January 1976; (b) how many special work
employees were there in the Post Office as at 31 January 1976; (c) how many special work
employees were there on the later date used for (a); and (d) can he confirm that the special
work employees are not included within the approved staff ceilings of his department?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: (a) Post Office staff numbers
altered from 38 892 at 31 January 1976 to 38 117 at 31 May 1977; (b) there were 296 special-
work employees in the Post Office as at 31 January 1976; (c) there were 329 special-work
employees employed in the Post Office as at 31 May 1977; and (d) I can confirm that the
special-work employees are not included within the approved staff ceilings of the Post
Office.
(20/7/77)
Police Offences Statistics-June Quarter
57. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Police: How many
offences were reported to the Police during the June quarter 1977?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: Police offences statistics for the
June quarter will not be available from the State Services Computer Centre until some time
in August. Offences reported in the March quarter of 1977, however, totalled 55 465 or 1060
fewer than the 56 525 reported in the equivalent 1976 quarter.
(20/7/77)
Offences Against the Person
58. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Police: How many
offences against the person were reported during the March year 1977, and how does this
compare with the previous year?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: Offences reported to the Police
are recorded on a calendar-year basis, and for the 1976 year offences against the person
numbered 11 564 as against 11 758 in 1975, a reduction of 194.
(20/7/77)


## p. 1834 (#290) ###########################################

1834
3 August
Questions and Replies
Wind Generation
59. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: In view of his
intention to issue goals and guidelines for an energy policy, has he any immediate proposals
to set aside areas for the erection of wind-power generators?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: Investigations into the wind
available at various likely sites are continuing. It is, however, too early to consider setting
aside particular areas for wind generation.
(20/7/77)
Huntly Coal-Government Control
60. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: In view of his reply to my
question of 30 June 1977 that much of the coal north of Huntly is privately owned: (1) can he
state what control he or the department has over the development and/or mining of these
privately owned deposits; and (2) does he believe that these mines should or will not be
planned before the middle of the next decade?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Mines) replied: (1) The Coal Act requires the owner of any
mine, be it privately owned or Crown owned, to work the mine in the manner approved by
the inspector of coal mines, and so as to avoid any unnecessary loss of coal. This requirement
is set out in section 11 of the Coal Mines Amendment Act 1950; and (2) in the interest of
energy conservation any large new underground coal mine must be planned to obtain
extraction rates well above those at present being achieved, and it will be necessary in the
case of the deep coal north of Huntly to develop new technology to do this. I do not believe it
will be possible for any coal mine operator to develop satisfactorily a new technique of
mining quickly enough to begin planning a large new underground mine in this area until
about the mid 1980s.
(20/7/77)
Secondary Schools-Technical Teachers
61. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: What steps does he
propose to take to meet the staffing situation in technical departments in high schools, as
recently highlighted in a statement by Mr N. H. Thornton of Papakura High School in the
New Zealand Herald of 22 June?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I am aware of the areas of teacher
shortage in technical and other departments of secondary schools, and as an immediate
measure to meet these shortages I have obtained the Government's approval to mount a
recruitment scheme in the United Kingdom. Full details of the scheme have been sent to the
controlling authorities of all state secondary schools inviting them to participate if they
consider it will assist them with particular staffing problems. In addition, but as a longer-
term measure, special emphasis is being given during the current campaign within New
Zealand to recruiting for the subject areas in which there has tended to be a shortfall in
previous years.
(21/7/77)
Import Prices Index
62. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Statistics: What was the percen-
tage change in the import prices index for the years ended 31 December 1971, 1972, 1973,
1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: I am advised by the Govern-
ment Statistician that the percentage change in the import prices index for the last 6 years
ended 31 December was as follows:
Year Ended
31 December
Percentage Increase
on Previous Year
1971
1972
6.2
4.0
1973
5.3
1974
26.9
1975
30.6
1976
23.6
(22/7/77)


## p. 1835 (#291) ###########################################

3 August
1835
Questions and Replies
Nuclear Bomb Tests-Mururoa
63. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: How many
nuclear bomb tests by the French Government at Mururoa have been detected by the
Government, and does it know what further tests are planned by the French Government?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: I assume
the honourable member is referring to tests conducted underground by the French Govern-
ment, as all atmospheric tests were detectable from monitoring of radioactive fallout. Since
the French Government commenced underground testing New Zealand seismological
stations have detected four seismic events, with the known characteristics of underground
nuclear explosions, conducted on Mururoa atoll, and a previous two which were conducted
on Fangataufa atoll. We have no knowledge of any plans the French Government might
have for further tests.
(22/7/77)
Telephone Waiting List-Dunedin
64. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Postmaster-General: Has he seen the
report in the Otago Daily Times of 14 January 1977, in which it was stated that there were
500 applications on the waiting list to have telephones connected, and can he tell the House
how many applications for telephone connections the Dunedin Post Office has at present?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: I have read the report. The figure
quoted represented the approximate number of applicants in the Dunedin central exchange
network at 31 December 1976 who could not be provided with service because of a shortage
of cable or telephone numbers. At the same date an additional 203 applicants in the area
were awaiting installing resources or their requests were under review. At 30 June 1977 a
total of 806 applicants in the same area were waiting for service, of which 572 could not be
connected because of cable/telephone number shortages and 234 were awaiting installing
resources or were under review. In the year ended 31 March 1977, 408 new connections were
added to the Dunedin central exchange network.
(22/7/77)
Maputo Declaration—Recruitment of Mercenaries
65. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Having
regard to the fact that in a letter he wrote to me on 23 May 1977 the following passage
appears: ... neither the act of advertising in New Zealand for recruits for service outside
New Zealand, nor the act of actually enlisting recruits for such service is an offence under
New Zealand law. Nor is it an offence for a New Zealand citizen to enlist in the armed forces
of another country.", and having regard to the further fact that in sundry answers he has
given to me about the contents and binding effect on New Zealand of the Maputo
Declaration there is no suggestion that paragraph 6B(c), to—¨Enact legislation declaring the
recruitment, assembly, financing, and training of mercenaries in their territories to be
punishable as a criminal act and to do their utmost to discourage and prohibit their nationals
from serving as mercenaries", is not fully supported by the Government, what steps are
proposed to be taken to give effect to this part of the declaration and when may we expect
the relevant legislation?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: The question of enacting
legislation to prohibit the recruitment of mercenaries is under active consideration. I now
have a report before me setting out possible legislative alternatives, and I expect to make a
recommendation to Cabinet shortly.
(27.7/77)
Christchurch-Power Pylons
66. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Electricity: Has
he received any representations in the past 18 months to have the unsightly power pylons
that run across Burnside Park and Memorial Avenue in Christchurch removed, and are there
any plans to have these pylons removed in the next 18 months?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity) replied: I have received no representations on
this subject since I became Minister of Electricity, and, to the best of my knowledge, there
has been none such in the past 18 months. There are no plans to have these pylons removed
in the next 18 months.
(27/7/77)


## p. 1836 (#292) ###########################################

1836
3 August
Questions and Replies
Electoral Rolls
67. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Justice: In view
of his reply to the member for New Lynn on 25 May that copies of the updated electoral rolls
would be available to electorate officers after June, can he state (a) whether they are in fact
now available; (b) if copies can be purchased by the public and at what price; and (c) when
he expects the town and street index to the new electorates to be available?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: (a) Updated electoral rolls are not
available to the public. A single copy of a computer printout for each electorate has been
forwarded to each electorate officer as a basis for classification into the new electoral
districts. It was decided to proceed with this step before completely updating the rolls so that
the new rolls can be brought up to date before publication for the 1978 elections; (b) it has
never been policy, nor would it be economically justifiable to publish rolls except for the
immediate purpose of the conduct of an election; and (c) the index of places and streets is
not a public document, but is prepared administratively for the guidance of electorate
officers and polling booth staff. The index for the new electorates will be prepared in
conjunction with the classification of electors into the new electorates. The classification will
be done by reference to census meshblocks, but it will be possible to print a list of towns and
streets within each electorate.
(27.7.77)
North Canterbury Catchment Board—Akaroa and Lyttelton
68. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Works and
Development: Has he seen the Christchurch Star of 11 July, in which the mayor of Lyttelton
denies any knowledge of recent attempts to bring Lyttelton Borough under the North
Canterbury Catchment Board's authority and in which, in addition, the chairman of the
board says little if any effort has been made to bring the area and Akaroa County under its
control; and can he reconcile those reported statements with his answer to my urgent
question of 5 July, in which he said he has attempted to obtain acceptance of the full services
of the catchment board by both the Akaroa County and the Lyttelton Borough?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: In my answer of 5
July I did not state that my attempts to obtain acceptance of the full services of the catchment
board by both the Akaroa County and the Lyttelton Borough were by direct personal
contact with these two authorities, although the mayor has apparently taken this inference.
All attempts to date have been made on my behalf by the National Water and Soil
Conservation Authority and the Ministry of Works and Development. I have also, in
correspondence with the member for Lyttelton on erosion problems, referred to the need for
direct discussion between Lyttelton Borough and the North Canterbury Catchment Board.
The situation prevailing at present exists because the local people did not want to be
included in the catchment district for soil conservation and rivers control purposes. If the
people agree that it is now in their best interests to accept full catchment service, then this
can be arranged by agreement between the local territorial authorities and the North
Canterbury Catchment Board. A successful getting together of the parties can arise only
from mutual agreement, not by direction, and I am hopeful that such an agreement can be
reached.
(27/7/77)
Neutron Bomb-Objection by New Zealand
69. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Will the New Zealand
Government be conveying to the Government of the United States its possible objection to
any proposals for making a neutron bomb?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: The possible production
and deployment of a new nuclear weapon by any country is a matter of concern to the
Government, which has made it plain that it wants to see a reduction in the present levels of
nuclear weapons, a cessation of all nuclear testing, and ultimately international agreement
on effective nuclear disarmament. I am aware of the conflicting arguments surrounding the
neutron bomb. While the United States Government has approved funds for continuing
research on the development of the bomb, President Carter has indicated that a final
decision has yet to be taken on its production and deployment. The Government will, of


## p. 1837 (#293) ###########################################

3 August
1837
Questions and Replies
course, continue to watch closely developments in this area, as it does all such developments
which have a bearing on its policy towards nuclear disarmament. At this stage, however, it
would not consider it appropriate to express any special concern to the United States
Government.
(27/7/77)
National Roads Board-Income and Allocations
70. Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel) asked the Minister of Works and Development: What
has been the total vote of the National Roads Board during (a) 1974, (b) 1975, and (c) 1976,
and what is the projected vote for 1977; also, what were the National Roads Board's
allocations to the 2C District Roads Council for the same years?
Hon. W. L YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The income of the
National Roads Board in the years 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-77 was $116.5 million, $124.9
million, and $130.7 million. For 1977-78 the board has adopted a budget level of $130.4
million. Total expenditure in the 2C roads district for the years 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-
77 was $3.52 million, $3.87 million, and $4.05 million. The allocation in the 1977-78
estimates is $3.89 million. This allocation does not include an allowance for any flood
damage assistance which may be required during the financial year.
(27/7/77)
Parliamentary Papers-Publication
71. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister in Charge of the Government Printing
Office: Can he indicate when bound volumes of the Journals and the Appendix to the
Journals for 1976, and Volume 408 of Parliamentary Debates will be available for the use of
members?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister in Charge of the Government Printing Office) replied:
The bound volumes of the Appendix to the Journals for 1976 should be available to members
by 8 August. Volume 408 of Parliamentary Debates will be available by 12 August, and the
Journals of the House are expected to be available about the end of August 1977.
(27/7/77)
Wood-based Liquid-fuel Industry
72. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Has the
Government any proposals to prove the process for the establishment of a wood-based
liquid-fuel industry in New Zealand outlined in DSIR report No. 575 of June 1977?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: I have just received a copy of
the DSIR report and have asked for an evaluation of it. The process considered in the report
is one of a number which could be used for the production of liquid fuels from wood.
Another is the hydrolysis, and subsequent fermentation, of wood. Following the Budget I
announced that funds had been approved for the Forest Research Institute to build a pilot
plant based on this process. The DSIR itself has carried out research on the process
described in the report, and is continuing these investigations.
(27/7/77)
Auckland Education Board-Attendance Officers
73. Mr WETERE (Western Maori) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the
attendance problems outlined in the 1977 report of the Auckland Education Board, when
does he intend to increase the attendance officer strength on the board?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have studied the section of the
report of the Auckland Education Board dealing with the irregular attendance of pupils. My
department is developing a comprehensive national programme aimed at reducing truancy.
Important elements in the programme will be reviews of the procedures used to check pupils'
attendance and of action to follow up unexplained absences, and liaison with parents and
other agencies which have responsibilities in this matter. These include the education
boards, visiting teachers and attendance officers, the Departments of Social Welfare and
Maori Affairs, and the Police youth aid section. The other important aspect is a continuing
review of the teaching programmes for pupils at risk for truancy. This total programme has


## p. 1838 (#294) ###########################################

1838
3 August
Questions and Replies
already shown considerable success in trial districts. The Auckland Education Board's
proposal for the appointment of more attendance officers has to be considered in the context
of welfare policies generally, and particularly in relation to social workers in the Department
of Social Welfare.
(27/7/77)
Energy Prices
74. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: What were
the relative prices of fuel oil, electricity, natural gas, and coal at mid-1973, and the same
figures on a comparative basis (that is, using the fuel oil price for mid-1973 as base 100)
showing any increase in price of the various fuels that took place between mid 1973 and
December 1975 and any further increase between then and July 1977; what are the relative
efficiencies of the various fuels used in compiling these figures; and are they the same as
those used for the Government's energy pricing policy?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: The relative and comparative
prices for fuel oil, electricity, natural gas, and coal in industrial use since mid 1973, requested
by the member, are shown in the tabular statement. The prices are on an energy output, or
effective energy basis, using the following efficiencies of fuel use: coal, 70 percent; fuel oil,
75 percent; natural gas, 75 percent; and electricity, 100 percent. These efficiencies are the
same as those used in the Government's energy pricing policy.
Industrial Energy Prices
Table 1: S per gigajoule of energy output
Coal
Fuel oil
Natural gas
Electricity
Mid 73 1/74 4/74
1.12 1.12 1.12 1.12 1.29
0.85 1.36 1.87 1.87 2.39
1.14 1.18 1.18 1.32 1.32
3.08 3.08 3.08 3.08 3.08 3.22
11/74
1.29
2.39
2175 4/75 6/75 1175 1275 276 4.76 8/76 1.77
1.29 1.29 1.29 1.40 1.79
2.39 2.39 3.39 3.39 3.39
4 77
5/77
1.87 2.23 2.23
3.39 3.39
2.36
3.47
3.47
3.22 3.22 3.22
1.32 1.41 1.51 1.51 1.51 1.52 1.70 2.56 2.56
4.72 4.72 6.32
2.56
3.22 4.72
6.32
Table 2: Percentage comparison with fuel oil price
Coal
Fuel oil
Natural gas
Electricity
134
132 82 60
100 100 100 100
87 63 71
362
8839
226 165 165 129 135
8878
54 54 54
54
38
41
53
55
100
100 100
100
100
100 100
100
55
55
59
63
45
45
45
50
135
135
95
95
139
139
32835
66
64
100 100
100
76
74
139 182
182
888
68
74
(27/7/77)
St. George and Co., Dunedin-Closure
75. Mr WALLS (Dunedin North) asked the Minister of Regional Development: In view of
the announced closure of the Dunedin food canning company of St. George, would he
advise the House whether this company has been or is in receipt of regional development
assistance; whether the company has approached either the Otago Regional Development
Council, the Development Finance Corporation, or the Government with any specific
requests for assistance to upgrade or rebuild its Dunedin factory in the past 18 months;
whether any prior notice of the closure was made by the Sharland group to him; whether the
closure is due to anything other than a normal business decision on investment by a company
and whether he agrees with claims by the member for Dunedin Central that the closure is
due to lack of action on his part; and what assistance is being extended by any Government
department to find employment for the 70 persons facing termination of employment?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: St. George and Co.,
Dunedin, was the recipient from 1973 to 1976 of a freight subsidy of 25 percent of qualifying
freight costs. This subsidy was renewed on an annually diminishing basis of 20 percent in
1977, 15 percent in 1978, and 10 percent in 1979 to give the company a "breathing space" to
undertake the necessary upgrading which would have helped it to improve efficiency. In
addition to the freight subsidy the company was given assistance towards the transfer of key
employees from Pukekohe to Dunedin in June 1976 following the closure of the company's
Pukekohe factory as part of a move to rationalise production into its traditional field of fruits
and jams and locate nearer to its source of raw materials. It was known that the company's
premises in Dunedin required considerable investment to comply with hygiene regulations,
and the Government would have preferred to aid the company with capital assistance
towards this necessary investment. However, despite the efforts of the Otago Regional
Development Council to encourage the company to undertake a development project, no
proposal was forthcoming. I can, therefore, confirm that no specific requests for assistance


## p. 1839 (#295) ###########################################

3 August
1839
Questions and Replies
to rebuild the factory have been made either to the development council, the Development
Finance Corporation, or the Government. I received no prior notice of the closure from the
Sharland group, which, in its public announcement of this decision, indicated that a major
factor taken into consideration was the high level of investment required if the operation was
to be re-established to comply with hygiene regulations. I consider there is no basis to the
claims by the member for Dunedin Central that the closure is due to any lack of action on my
part. The Department of Labour is interviewing St. George employees with a view to placing
them with other Dunedin companies. Five employees have already been offered alternative
employment with other Sharland subsidiaries in Dunedin.
(27/7/77)
Auckland Education Board-Transport Costs
76. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Education: Since the per capita limit on
transport to special schools and special classes has been stated by the Auckland Education
Board to be inadequate, and some applications are being refused, what measures does he
propose to take to rectify this matter?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Education boards have authority
to arrange school transport services within their areas and within cost guidelines set by the
Government. Where further assistance is necessary for children receiving special education,
a board may refer cases to me to approve transport costs in excess of the normal limits. Such
approvals are given quite frequently. The Auckland Education Board is aware of this
facility, and, at its discretion, is referring special cases to me for consideration.
(27/7/77)
Maputo International Conference
77. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: What
financial support has the Government subscribed or intends to subscribe towards the cost of
the International Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia held in
Maputo?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: The Government
contributed $2,000 in response to a request from the United Nations Secretary-General for
voluntary contributions to meet the additional cost of holding the conference away from the
organisation headquarters.
(27/7/77)
SEATO-Distribution of Assets
78. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Can he
confirm that the Thai Government will purchase SEATO property in Bangkok; state how
the remaining assets will be distributed; and indicate what New Zealand will receive, if
anything?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: The Thai Government
has already exercised its option to purchase the former SEATO headquarters building
(including air-conditioning plant and telephone equipment). New Zealand's share of the
proceeds, based on its 8 percent share of the cost of construction, came to about US$43,290.
Apart from a few items donated to the Thai and Philippine governments, most of the
chattels, comprising largely furniture and office equipment, are to be sold and the proceeds
apportioned to member governments in accordance with their agreed rates of contribution to
the last budget. In New Zealand's case this is 11.58 percent. New Zealand will not physically
receive any of the former organisation's assets.
(27/7/77)
Teacher Training Quota
79. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the
statement by the Auckland Education Board in its 1977 report that the timing of the
announcement of the further reduction in the quota of students for teacher training was
embarrassing to the board, can he give any indication of whether further cuts will be likely
this year?


## p. 1840 (#296) ###########################################

1840
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The quota for entry to teacher
training in 1978 has not yet been fixed, and I am unable at present to indicate what the quota
might be.
(27/7/77)
Education-Maintenance Grant
80. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister of Education: Does he intend to
agree to the request of the Auckland Education Board in its 1977 report to "review the
maintenance grant annually so as to keep abreast of inflation"?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The policy of this Government is
to keep all discretionary grants under constant review, and the maintenance grant has been
increased in each of the last 2 years. A further review is currently under way, and I hope to
announce towards the end of this year, the rate to be paid in 1978.
(27/7/77)
Auckland-Replacement of Substandard Education Buildings
81. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Education: What plans does he have for
the replacement of the substandard buildings mentioned in the 1977 report of the Auckland
Education Board?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: These substandard buildings are
legacy of the previous Labour Government, and, within the limits of available finance, I am
taking action to correct the situation. Replacement work is programmed to commence this
financial year at the Onehunga, Taupaki, and Awanui primary schools. Further replacement
work is envisaged at 17 other schools in the Auckland board's district during the next 5 years.
(27/7/77)
Auckland-Security Alarms for Schools
82. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the substantial
increase in the cost of vandal damage to schools in the Auckland Education Board area,
when does he intend to provide security alarms for schools considered to be at greater risk?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Since 1974 finance has been
available for the installation of security alarms in schools. Controlling authorities may apply
for financing the installation of alarms where a security risk is shown to exist and the need for
such alarms is supported by the local crime prevention section of the Police Department.
The Auckland Education Board has installed a number of alarms in the district at schools
prone to vandalism.
(27/7/77)
Huntly-Development of Underground Coal Mines
83. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: In view of the coal
shortage and the Minister's answers to several of my questions, stating that the development
of underground mines is being delayed by lack of knowledge about suitable mining
technology and the need to develop a new mining technique, preventing development of new
underground mines before the mid-1980s, will he state whether the development of these
mines is regarded as having any urgency at all, and, if they do have urgency, the steps he is
taking to speed up the obtaining of knowledge about development of such techniques?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Mines) replied: There is no question but that the future
development of underground coal mining at Huntly is regarded by the Government as a
matter of urgency. We know, however, that following the further development at present of
the two new mines at Huntly, large underground mines in this area will have to be in deeper
and thicker coal. To recover the major part of this deep coal, new technology will be needed.
Investigations are now being made into the progress being made on deep mining technology
in other countries. Mr W. S. Partel, the Assistant Secretary of Mines, is overseas studying
the progress which is being made in Poland and West Germany. I should add that the
development of new technology is only one of the things that will delay the planning of new
underground coal mines at Huntly. The others are equally important: the gaining of
experience in operating large mines in New Zealand conditions, and the building up of a


## p. 1841 (#297) ###########################################

3 August
1841
Questions and Replies
skilled work force. Neither of these can be done until the new mines now being developed at
Huntly are operating at full capacity. The developing of these two mines is not being delayed
by any lack of technical knowledge; it is going ahead without delay.
(27/7/77)
Ocean Beach Company-Dispute
84. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Labour: Does
the Government still intend to proceed with prosecutions against the Ocean Beach Freezing
Company and the Ocean Beach sub-branch of the Meat Workers' Union as reported in the
Southland Times of 5 July and, if not, what steps does it intend to take to solve the dispute?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The instigation of a criminal process is
not a matter for political decision. The Government has requested the prosecuting authority
to investigate the allegations of breaches of the law at the Ocean Beach Freezing Works. If
this investigation discloses prima facie offences, no doubt prosecutions will follow.
(27/7/77)
ORAL QUESTIONS
Transferred as Written Questions under S.O. 82
School Certificate Examination Fees
85. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen a report in the
Dominion of 29 June 1977 in which the principal of Mana College, Porirua, Mr D. W. A.
Day, was quoted as saying in his general report to the board of governors that "Mana
College in Porirua may have to lend some of its pupils the money to pay for increased School
Certificate examination fees", and, if so, will the Government do anything to relieve the
plight not only of these pupils, but also of pupils sitting the School Certificate examinations
in 1977?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have read the Dominion report
on pupils at Mana College borrowing money to pay School Certificate examination fees.
Funds are operated by principals at a number of schools from which candidates may borrow
money to assist with the payment of fees. In addition, my department operates a scheme for
the full remission of fees where the Department of Social Welfare considers the payment of
fees would cause financial hardship.
(8/7/77)
Chatham Islands Air Services
86. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Has he seen the
report in the Christchurch Press of 1 June 1977, in which it was confirmed that at long last the
Government has decided to resume air services between Christchurch and the Chatham
Islands, and can he now tell the House what steps he is taking to ensure that funds are made
available to upgrade the 55 km of poor roads that link the existing airfield at Hapupu with
the main Chatham Islands settlement at Waitangi?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: I have seen the report
referred to by the honourable member. The previous Labour Government discontinued the
Christchurch - Chatham Islands service in April 1975. The National Government, following
strong representations, particularly by the member for Lyttelton, within whose electorate
the Chatham Islands lie, is resuming the service. The National Roads Board was scheduled
to carry out an inspection of Chatham Islands roading in April this year, but due to
unfavourable flying weather the tour had to be abandoned on the planned day of departure.
The board still intends to visit the Chatham Islands and, when this has been done and the
condition of roading there assessed at first hand, careful consideration will be given to what
special assistance additional to present allocations can be made to improve the roading
there.
(8/7/77)
10 Vol. 412


## p. 1842 (#298) ###########################################

1842
3 August
Questions and Replies
Bairds Primary School-Teacher-aid Hours
87. Mr WETERE (Western Maori) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the fact
that there have been increases in both the total roll of Bairds Primary School and the number
of Maori and Pacific island children on the roll, why has there been such a dramatic
reduction in teacher-aid hours from 25 at March 1976 to 5.5 at March 1977?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I should like to correct an error in
the information given to the honourable member in my written answer of 3 June. The
number of teacher-aid hours for Bairds Primary School should have been 5 plus 5 not
5 point 5.
The reduction in teacher-aid hours is therefore 15, not 19.5. This difference in allocated
hours between 1976 and 1977 is accounted for by (i) a reduction of 5 hours in basic
entitlement through a change in the grading roll of the school from 446 on 30 September
1975 to 407 on 30 September 1976, and (ii) a reduction of 10 hours from 15 in the
discretionary allowance allocated by the district senior inspector to meet special require-
(8/7/77)
ments.
Health Centre-Upper Hutt
88. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Health: Is it correct that
$700,000 has been set aside for health centres, and is there any money for a health centre
in Upper Hutt?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The Wellington Hospital Board has made a
proposal to the Department of Health on a health centre project for Upper Hutt, and
discussions have been started. I am to receive a deputation from interested parties later this
month. I hope that planning for one or more health centres at Upper Hutt will proceed this
financial year. Finance will be allocated for this purpose.
(8/7/77)
National Superannuation-Cost
89. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Has he seen the
advertisement in the Wanganui Herald dated 21 May 1977 which states that "the net extra
cost of National's pension scheme is $200 million a year and that $6 a week of every family's
belt tightening is paying for the scheme", and, if so, is this correct?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: I have seen the advertisement.
It is not correct. Current income taxation rates are the same as under the last Labour
Government, with the exception that the National Government has given substantial tax
deductions to assist the low-income family. Furthermore, from 1 October 1977 the PAYE
tax table will include an expanded young family rebate for the principal income earner in
families with a child under 5 years of age. Instead of the present rebate of $6 a week on
incomes up to $100 a week, the rebate will be increased to $9 a week on incomes up to $150 a
week. A more favourable method of rebating excess income will be introduced, which will
result in those whose income is less than $240 a week being eligible for a rebate. In addition,
a new rebate is to be introduced for single-income families with a child under 10. It will also
be available to widows and other solo parents with a child under 10. This new rebate will
considerably reduce the disadvantage suffered by single-income families under the present
personal income tax structure.
(22/7/77)
TV1-Financial Situation
90. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Has he seen the
report in the Evening Post of 2 June 1977 of an interview with former TV1 continuity
announcer, Islay McLeod, who has resigned from TV1 because "the financial situation
means programmes are being dropped and the financial restrictions are bringing back
bureaucrats of the old NZBC days", and, if so, are these statements correct?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied: Yes, I have seen the report.
I am not prepared to take responsibility for statements made by Miss McLeod. I understand
that TV1 local production is at about 30 percent of its scheduling and that the corporation is
confident that it will maintain local production both quantitatively and qualitatively.
(22/7/77)


## p. 1843 (#299) ###########################################

3 August
1843
Questions and Replies
Railways-Removal of Subsidies
91. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Railways: Has he read the Labour
Party advertisement in the Wanganui Herald of 21 May 1977 which states, "We are told that
removal of subsidies and increased Government charges are to help New Zealand's
economy", and, if so, will he state what subsidies have been cancelled in his department
since December 1972, for what reason, and to what value, and what is the reason for any
increased charges?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: As a result of the policy of
the previous Administration, Railway Department fares and charges which applied in
December 1972 were held at that level until 1976. The effects of higher wage costs and
inflation imposed on a "frozen" tariff caused the Railways Department to incur substantial
losses over ensuing years. These losses, save for the 1972-73 year, which was met by an
interest-free national development loan, were recovered from the Stabilisation vote which
was a charge on all taxpayers. In 1976 the present Government instituted its policy of
restoring the Railways to a commercially viable organisation by approving an increase in all
Railways Department charges, although it recognised that the process would take some time
to achieve because of the magnitude of the loss being incurred. The losses incurred since
December 1972 were 1972-73, $3,349,822 1973-74, $8,652,983; 1974-75, $45,259,655; 1975-
76, $62,953,504. Since February 1976 there have been four adjustments to Railways
Department charges, effective from 1 February 1976, 16 June 1976, 1 January 1977, and 15
May 1977. The February 1976 adjustment applied to all charges, but it had a limited effect in
the 1975-76 financial year. Over a full year the increase was estimated to increase revenue by
$46 million. The increase effective from 16 June 1976 applied to all charges except passenger
fares, and was estimated to inject $38 million into Railways Department revenue. On 2
January 1977 passenger fares were increased, with an estimated return of $1 million
additional revenue during the remaining 3 months of the 1977 financial year and $4.8 million
on a full year of operation. The most recent increase, effective from 15 May 1977, applied to
all rail and ferry freight rates. This increase, which averaged 9 percent, is expected to
provide a further $18 million this financial year and $20 million in a full year.
(22/7/77)
Regional Development Suspensory Loans
92. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Does he
intend to make it possible for industries receiving regional development suspensory loans to
apply for and receive more than one such loan?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I have announced in
elaboration of the Budget that the "once only" rule applying to regional development
suspensory loans will be relaxed. The relaxation will permit companies growing and
diversifying in a priority region to undertake their development in phases, where approp-
riate, without prejudicing their case for assistance beyond the first stage. However, it is not
intended that the regional development suspensory loans scheme should provide a continu-
ing source of funds for companies undertaking normal ongoing business expansion in the
region, and each application for further suspensory loan assistance will have to be considered
on its merits.
(22/7/77)
Immigration-Assisted Passages
93. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Immigration: Is it correct, as
stated in a letter to the New Zealand Herald of 29 June 1977, that the Government is again
subsidising passages for immigration?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration) replied: No, it is not correct. The Government
at this stage has no plans to subsidise immigration. In order to ensure that the immigrants we
need can enter New Zealand, the Government has recently expanded its occupational
priority lists, and it also allows special cases to be made for the entry of persons whose
occupations are not on the lists. However, the Government considers that fares to New
Zealand should be paid by immigrants themselves or by the employers who will be
employing them, rather than being subsidised by the taxpayer.
(22/7/77)
10°


## p. 1844 (#300) ###########################################

1844
3 August
Questions and Replies
Fishing Industry-Development Finance
94. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Will the Government make
available at reasonable interest rates the money required for the expansion of existing plant
and the building of new plant needed for servicing the fishing of the 320-km economic zone?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Minister of Fisheries) replied: Financial assistance is already
available for processing plant, cool stores, and ice plants through the Rural Banking and
Finance Corporation and the Development Finance Corporation. It is recognised that as the
fishing industry develops there will be a need for adequate processing facilities, and the
Government will be watching this closely to ensure that sufficient finance is available at
reasonable rates.
(22/7/77)
Heroin Disposal
95. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Health: Can he confirm that the
Department of Health receives confiscated heroin from the Police Department, and, if so,
what check is made to ensure that all heroin confiscated is actually handed over to his
department?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The Department of Health does not receive
confiscated heroin from the Police Department. The only involvement of the Department of
Health in this matter is to supervise the destruction of heroin and other confiscated drugs by
the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research.
(22/7/77)
Employment of Women Made Redundant in Christchurch
96. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Labour: In view of the closures of
factories and the dismissal of employees in the Christchurch area, and the fact that many of
those made redundant are married women who do not qualify for unemployment benefit,
what measures is he prepared to take to provide alternative employment for these women?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Eligibility for unemployment benefit is
not a factor that the Department of Labour takes into account when enrolling persons
seeking employment. Any person who is unemployed-and this includes married
women may register with my department's employment service, which will then assist in
every possible way. This has not changed in any way from the system under the previous
Administration. The assistance that can be given to married women who register as
unemployed is often limited by family commitments. These commitments can reduce the
range of employment they can undertake because of factors relating to hours of work,
holidays, and travelling time. Nevertheless, although there are more opportunities for those
who are able to undertake full-time employment without restriction, I would recommend to
any married women who have become redundant that they should not hesitate to approach
my department for assistance.
(22/7/77)
Makora College-New Gymnasium
97. Mr COUCH (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Education: Can he indicate what
progress has been made regarding the building of the new gymnasium for Makora College
this year?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Working drawings for the
gymnasium have been completed by the Ministry of Works and Development. It now
remains for contract documents to be satisfactorily completed to enable my department to
seek my approval for the calling of tenders for the work.
(22/7/77)
Secondary School-Pages Road, Timaru
98. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Education: When is work
scheduled to commence on the proposed new secondary school to be built in Pages Road,
Timaru, and when is the school likely to be opened?


## p. 1845 (#301) ###########################################

3 August
1845
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The development of the site is
tentatively scheduled to begin later this year, with building construction to follow during
1978. If the present time schedule can be adhered to, the replacement secondary school for
Timaru College could open in 1980.
(22/7/77)
Contracting Work-Economic Restraint
99. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Can he give any
indication whether the Government's economic policy of restraint is effective in the
contracting field?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The government's
economic policy of restraint has had an influence on tender pricing of Government contracts.
Early in 1976 it was standard practice to expect tender prices to exceed departmental
estimates for the contract. Today the reverse is the case and prices at which contracts are let
are in the main less than departmental estimates.
(22/7/77)
Education-Early Childhood Director
100. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: When does he expect
the appointment of director (early childhood education) in the Department of Education to
be made?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Appointments to positions in the
Department of Education are the administrative responsibility of the Director-General of
Education and the State Services Commission. My information is that a decision can be
expected in about 3 or 4 weeks.
(22/7/77)
Supreme Court-Temporary Judges
101. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Attorney-General: Has he seen the
press statement of the president of the Auckland District Law Society in the New Zealand
Herald of 20 June 1977, criticising the appointment of temporary judges and stating that the
Government's policy was threatening the standing of the Supreme Court itself, and will he
indicate how many more temporary judges he intends to appoint?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Attorney-General) replied: At this stage one more.
(22/7/77)
ORAL QUESTIONS
Coastal Shipping
102. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Transport: In view of the fact that
coastal shipping is now in no better position than it was in November 1975, how much further
delay will there be in taking the measures promised in the 1975 National Party manifesto to
revive and resuscitate coastal shipping?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: I have been awaiting the
outcome of the study being carried out by the Shipping Corporation into coastal shipping.
This study, which is now almost complete, will give an indication of the requirements of
shippers in both the North and South Islands and will materially assist the Government in
reaching decisions on the most desirable type of coastal shipping service that should be
implemented.
(7/7/77)
Waiareka Valley Irrigation Scheme
103. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru) asked the Minister of Works and Development: What
stage has been reached with the investigation into the Waiareka Valley irrigation scheme,
and when is it expected that a start will be made on construction work?


## p. 1846 (#302) ###########################################

1846
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The investigations for
a possible irrigation scheme in the Waiareka Valley area are associated with the studies
related to catchment control works and the best use of water resources in the area. The
Otago Catchment Board and the Ministry of Works and Development have produced
preliminary reports and broad estimates of costs for a scheme. The Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries has been working for some time on the economic studies related to these
proposals, including aspects of social impact of a scheme on the area and the communities
involved. These reports are expected to be available shortly. Provided the reports show the
scheme to be worthy of support, investigations and planning will continue in a more detailed
way. Government approval for construction would be sought when the feasibility reports
and scheme design have been finalised.
(7/7/77)
Correspondence School-Allowance for Mothers
104. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the
circular letter of the Women's Division of the Federated Farmers of New Zealand, dated 10
June 1977, setting out the case for an allowance for mothers of primary school children on
full-time correspondence school courses, and could he indicate what the Government's
attitude is towards the payment of such an allowance?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have seen the letter being
circulated by the Women's Division of Federated Farmers. In accordance with its election
policy on rural education, the Government recognises the part played by parents of
correspondence school children by giving them financial assistance to take their children on
group courses. In view of the present economic situation, it is unlikely that further financial
assistance will be made available by way of a monetary allowance to compensate mothers for
time spent in teaching.
(7/7/77)
Traffic Offences Involving Liquor-Prosecutions
105. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Transport: How many
successful prosecutions have been recorded for traffic offences involving liquor in the years
1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: Successful prosecutions by
the Ministry of Transport for traffic offences involving liquor are as follows: 1972, 3841;
1973, 4115; 1974, 4478; 1975, 5618; and 1976, 5757. The total number of prosecutions,
including those conducted by local body traffic enforcement authorities, and it must be
remembered that some local authorities are involved, are as follows: 1972, 6631; 1973, 7417;
1974, 8011; 1975, 9159; and 1976, 8883.
(7/7/77)
NAC-Sale of Boeing Aircraft
106. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Transport: Are there any proposals to
sell further Boeing aircraft of NAC's fleet, and what were the reasons for the sale of ZK-
NAQ, the Boeing 737 aircraft recently disposed of by NAC?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: NAC's ninth Boeing 737,
ZK-NAQ, was purchased ahead of demand to avoid a substantial price increase, and to
ensure that it was available to meet the considerable passenger growth forecasts at the time
of purchase. However, a slowing down of the economy reduced passenger growth rates, thus
making it more profitable to lease the aircraft overseas than use it in New Zealand. NAC
experienced little growth during the period of the lease, and the market overseas was such
that it was preferable to sell the aircraft rather than enter into a further lease arrangement.
At the time there was a demand for that type of aircraft, and prices were high.
(7/7/77)
Domestic Purposes Benefit-Statutory Declaration
107. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In what
circumstances does the Department of Social Welfare find it necessary to obtain a statutory
declaration from the recipient of a domestic purposes benefit?


## p. 1847 (#303) ###########################################

3 August
1847
Questions and Replies
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Individual cases can and do
vary markedly, and whether a statutory declaration is sought depends on the particular
circumstances of the case. However, in general, these declarations are sought when
appropriate, in order to obtain a written statement of a person's existing circumstances, to
determine eligibility, or continued eligibility for a benefit.
(7/7/77)
Capital Air Services-Financial Assistance
108. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Does he propose to offer any assistance to Capital Air Services to help it resolve its
financial difficulties?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: Capital Air Services Limited is a private company. I understand that it ceased its air
services from midnight on 29 June 1977 because of increasing trade losses. Over the past 5
years, the Ministry of Transport has been aware of the difficulties and of the periodic
liquidity problems experienced by Capital Air Services, and has allowed it extended credit in
the payment of airways dues. My ministry is available and ready to give whatever advice it
can regarding the company's air services.
(7/7/77)
Irrigation and Water Schemes, Otago
109. RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North), on behalf of Mr COOPER (Otago Central),
asked the Minister of Works and Development: What is the present number of Ministry of
Works and Development personnel working on the investigation into and planning of
irrigation and water schemes in the Otago Province, and is there any delay in progress due to
staff shortages?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The present number
of staff working directly in the water and soil division of the Ministry of Works and
Development on the investigation and planning of irrigation schemes in Otago is five, with a
sixth expected to transfer to the area shortly. Two other experienced staff from the group are
temporarily absent-one on extended leave, and the other seconded to a foreign aid project
in Samoa. Assistance to irrigation projects is also provided from civil and power divisions of
the department for design, drafting, field survey, and some of the major structures. The loss
of experienced staff from the investigation and design team in Otago did cause a slowing
down in the output of work, and some delay in the letting of contracts. However, the
department has been taking steps to fill the vacancies, and does not see cause for continuing
concern or major delays to important irrigation projects.
(7/7/77)
Tourist Coach Travel-Cost
110. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Transport: What has been the cost per
seat/kilometre of tourist coach travel in the years 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, 1976, and 1977, and
what is he doing to ensure that tourist coach travel stays within the reach of visiting tourists?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: Perhaps I should begin by
apologising for the length of my answer. It is not clear which type of tourist coach travel the
member for Sydenham is referring to. Visitors to this country often travel by scheduled daily
coach services. However, the majority probably use package-deal coach tours. Such non-
scheduled coach tours normally include in their total price the cost of such things as meals,
accommodation, and sightseeing expenses. These package tour prices are regulated by the
market competition between travel agents, tour organisers, and bus companies. The figures I
am able to give to the honourable member use as a sample three long distance passenger
coach service operators. The following are average cent-per-kilometre cost figures for an
adult passenger for the years in question: 1972, 1.9c; 1973, 1.9c; 1974, 1.9c; 1975, 2c; 1976,
2.1c; and 1977, 2.5c. The fares which may be charged by bus operators on scheduled services
are prescribed by the Secretary for Transport after taking into account the relevant
provisions of the Transport Act 1962 and the Stabilisation of Prices Regulations 1974.
(7/7/77)


## p. 1848 (#304) ###########################################

1848
3 August
Questions and Replies
Traffic Officers-Prosecutions for Assault
111. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Transport: How many
successful prosecutions were recorded for assaults against traffic officers in the years 1972,
1973, 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: The Ministry of Transport
does not keep records of prosecutions for assaults against traffic officers. These prosecutions
are handled by the police, and I suggest that the member direct that question to the Minister
of Police, who could possibly obtain those figures for him.
(7/7/77)
Pensions for Former N.Z. Residents Living in Yugoslavia
112. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Mr HUNT (New Lynn), asked the
Minister of Social Welfare: Has he seen a report in the New Zealand Herald of 29 June 1977
where the Prime Minister is quoted as having promised a handful of former New Zealanders
residing in Podgora, Yugoslavia, that he would investigate the problem of paying a New
Zealand pension to Yugoslavs who have returned to their homeland after a lifetime of
working in New Zealand, and, if so, will this investigation be carried out by the Department
of Social Welfare?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Yes, I have seen the article.
The Government's policy with regard to paying national superannuation outside New
Zealand is clearly set out in our 1975 manifesto, which states that this will be done when our
balance of payments and overseas reserves are in a healthy state. The matter referred to by
the honourable member will be investigated at the appropriate time in the light of the
Government's policy.
(7/7/77)
Oil Spillage
113. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa), on behalf of Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North),
asked the Minister of Transport: How many sea oil spillages within the 12-mile limit have
been recorded in the years 1972, 1973, 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: Records of oil spillages have
been kept only since 1974, when the Marine Pollution Act came into force. The figures for
1974, 1975, 1976 are four, three, and eight respectively.
(7/7/77)
Telephone Faults Service-Reduction
114. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Postmaster-General: Why, with the
revenue of the Post Office increased by more than $100 million in the last year, has it been
found necessary to reduce the service given to remedying faults in the telephone service in
Auckland?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: I do not agree that there has been
a reduction in the service given to remedying faults in the telephone service in Auckland.
The scope and complexity of telephone expansion in the Auckland metropolitan area has
placed strains on skilled staffing resources. About 50 percent of reported faults are cleared
on the day they are reported, and the majority of the remainder on the following day. This
situation has in fact existed in Auckland for several years, under Labour as well as National
Administrations, and is typical of the national average.
(7/7/77)
Maintenance Payments—Audits at Main Centres
115. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What is the
length of time between audits of maintenance at offices of the Department of Social Welfare
in (a) Auckland, (b) Hamilton, (c) Lower Hutt, (d) Wellington, (e) Christchurch, and (f)
Dunedin?


## p. 1849 (#305) ###########################################

3 August
1849
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare: The department's inspectors carry out an audit of mainte-
nance in each district office at least once a year. Auditors from the Controller and Auditor-
General's office also examine this aspect of the department's work from time to time. In
addition, in every office maintenance records are required to be perused weekly to ensure
that adequate action is being taken for enforcement. These procedures apply in respect of all
social welfare offices, including those referred to by the honourable member for Raglan.
(8/7/77)
Cerebral Pneumography
116. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Health: Can he tell the House
the number of occasions on which cerebral pneumography was used in New Zealand in the
years 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The number of occasions on which cerebral
pneumography was used in New Zealand was: 1974, 428; 1975, 526; and 1976, 492.
(8/7/77)
Wellington Airport-Navigational Aids
117. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services: Why is it that during the 21 months in which it has not been possible
to determine the cause of the intermittent malfunctioning of the Newlands beacon, other
navigational aids at Wellington Airport have been permitted to become or remain unservice-
able with the result that the Airline Pilots Association has placed restrictions on the airport's
use?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence) replied on behalf of the Minister of Civil
Aviation and Meteorological Services: The honourable member will be aware that it is
unrealistic to expect the navigational aids at Wellington Airport, or anywhere else for that
matter, to be 100 percent serviceable. The level of serviceability over the period to which he
refers has been satisfactory. When failures do occur they are dealt with promptly, and
facilities are not allowed to remain unserviceable any longer than is practicable. The airline
pilots associations are putting no restrictions on Wellington. The Newlands beacon is being
used by some pilots. Whether or not the beacon is used does not affect the services of either
NAC or Air New Zealand.
(8/7/77)
Oil Tanker Spillages-Precautions
118. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Transport: What precau-
tions has the Government taken in readiness for a major oil tanker spillage should such an
unfortunate accident occur?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Transport: A contingency plan has been prepared, and it is expected that it will be accepted
by the New Zealand committee on pollution of the sea by oil at its next meeting on 13 July.
The plan will then be submitted to the Government for approval, after which it will be
circulated as an operational guidance document. The ministry has the following equipment
available: 21 500 gallons of hydrocarbon based dispersant; 6000 gallons of concentrated
dispersant; 6 spraying sets for fitting on suitable vessels; and 2 ADAPTS pumping systems
for transferring oil from a damaged tanker.
(8/7/77)
University Education-Value for Money Spent
119. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the
statement of the member for Lyttelton as reported in the Press of 23 June 1977 that, "she did
not believe New Zealand was getting value for money at the university end of the education.
scale. It was time that New Zealand restricted the amount of money spent on students until it
proved that it was getting value for money”, and, if so, can he indicate whether these views
are shared by the Government?


## p. 1850 (#306) ###########################################

1850
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Education: "I have not seen the statement of the reported remarks by the member for
Lyttelton, but I might say that the Government does not share a view that New Zealand is
not getting value for money at the university end of the education scale. The financial grants
paid to the universities are those approved late in 1975 by the previous Government, with
the addition only of the extra cost of subsequent salary and wage adjustments. Like the
Governments before it, this Government has confidence in the advice it receives from the
University Grants Committee."
(8/7/77)
Road Signs in Manawatu-Cost of Damage
120. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Transport: Would he give
the percentage of vandalism and accidental damage to total signposting costs for the years
ended 31 March 1975, 1976, and 1977 for the Manawatu Automobile Association district?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Transport: The total cost of signposting and the percentage of this cost due to vandalism or
accidental damage for the Manawatu Automobile Association district was as follows: in the
year ended 31 March 1975, the total signposting cost was $19,329. The percentages due to
vandalism and accidental damage were 5.2 and 5.1 respectively. In the year ended 31 March
1976, the total signposting cost was $26,038. The percentages due to vandalism and
accidental damage were 14.3 and 8.9 respectively. In the year ended 31 March 1977, the total
signposting cost was $28,602. The percentages due to vandalism and accidental damage were
20.1 and 8.4 respectively.
(8/7/77)
NAC-Sale of Boeing Aircraft
121. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Transport: What price was NAC's
latest, but now sold, Boeing 737 ZK-NAQ sold for, what was the original purchase price,
and what is the current price of a Boeing 737 ex the Seattle factory?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Transport: The purchase cost of ZK-NAQ was $US7.5 million. Since NAC does not require
a further aircraft until December 1978, it has not at present got from the manufacturers
today's price for a new aircraft. Judging from other reported sales, the cost of such a new
aircraft if ordered now for delivery late in 1978 in a configuration suitable to NAC would be
in the region of $US8.5 million. However, NAC is more interested in purchasing a used
Boeing in good condition at a price currently estimated to be $US4.5 million, because such
an aircraft would have the same earning capacity, but would involve a smaller capital
expenditure.
(8/7/77)
Maintenance Orders-Personnel Involved
122. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What is the
ratio of departmental officers to maintenance orders currently administered by the Depart-
ment of Social Welfare?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare: At present 70 staff are engaged in enforcing maintenance
orders which at 31 March 1977 totalled 36 309. This represents a ratio of staff to maintenance
orders of 1:518.
(8/7/77)
Houpapa Shooting Grounds for Refusing Inquiry
123. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Police: On what grounds
did he base his decision, conveyed by him to the member for Northern Maori in his letter of 5
January 1977, that a public inquiry into the shooting of Daniel Houpapa was neither
necessary nor desirable?


## p. 1851 (#307) ###########################################

3 August
1851
Questions and Replies
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: The decision of Cabinet that a
public inquiry into the shooting of Daniel Houpapa was neither necessary nor desirable was
based on the following: First, the opinion of the Solicitor-General who conducted an
independent and extensive review of the Police file and concluded that the policeman who
fired the fatal shot was justified in terms of sections of the Crimes Act. In regard to section
41, the Solicitor-General's opinion stated that "the circumstances were such that the officer
who fired the fatal shot did so to prevent an act which he had reasonable grounds for
believing would, if done, amount to the commission of an offence which would be likely to
cause immediate and serious injury to others." The opinion also stated that the officer was
justified in using such force as was reasonably necessary to prevent Daniel Houpapa from
shooting again, and the only practicable means of force available was a firearm. Secondly,
the verdict of the coroner included the finding that Daniel Houpapa's death was caused by a
gunshot wound "which was received from a firearm fired by a member of the police engaged
in the course of measures being taken for the prevention of likelihood of serious injury to a
member of the police".
(8/7/77)
Cerebral Angiography
124. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Health: Can he tell the House
the number of occasions on which cerebral angiography was used in New Zealand in the
years 1974, 1975, and 1976?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: I hope my answer will be helpful to the
House. I should like to say, first, that angiography involves the injection of a dye into the
blood vessels in the neck and the taking of X-rays to establish the blood circulation. It
involves some risk to the patient and it is painful. It costs between $400 and $700 per patient,
depending on whether only one side of the brain is examined or both. An earlier question
was asked on pneumography. That involves the injection of air into the brain cavity and the
taking of X-rays to detect an abnormality. That too is risky and painful, and it costs about
$300 per patient. Fifty percent of angiography and 70 percent of pneumography would be
unnecessary if we had a scanner and, as opposed to the cost of $400 to $700 per patient in one
case and $300 in the other, the cost with a scanner would be $45, The figures for angiography
are as follows: In 1974, 1114; 1975, 1281; and 1976, 1385.
(8/7/77)
NZR Tour Coaches-Purchase Price
125. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Railways: What has been the basic
purchase price, duty, and sales tax per vehicle of NZR tour coaches for the years 1975,
1976, and 1977?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Railways: "The purchase of chassis and the construction of bodies for the department's tour
coaches are negotiated on a very competitive market, and it would not be in the public
interest to reveal these costs publicly. However, I am prepared to make them available to the
member for Sydenham on a confidential basis. The duty is included in the purchase price,
but the amount is not known by the Railways Department. No.sales tax is paid by either the
Government or private operators on chassis of vehicles capable of accommodating nine or
more passengers."
(8/7/77)
Motorcars-Model Statistics
126. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: How
many different models of motorcars are assembled in New Zealand?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: Exactly what
is or is not a different model of motorcar can be described as a debatable matter. However,
in my department's experience the generally accepted definitions are: first, marque, which
identifies the manufacturing company; secondly, model, which identifies the class of car; and
thirdly, model variant, which identifies variations of a model. On that basis there are 44
different models of motorcars assembled in New Zealand at present.
(8/7/77)


## p. 1852 (#308) ###########################################

1852
3 August
Questions and Replies
House Mortgage Refinancing Problems
127. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Housing: Has
he seen the New Zealand Herald of 6 April 1977, in which it is reported that "he assured
home owners facing mortgage refinancing problems that the Government would not allow a
massive forced sell-out of houses to occur", and how does he reconcile this with his
statement in the Christchurch Star of 25 June 1977 that "the Government would not
guarantee that people would not lose their homes in refinancing crisis"?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: Yes, I have seen the article in the
New Zealand Herald. In my opinion there is no conflict between that statement and my later
statement in the Christchurch Star. The Government has no intention of assuming the private
sector's role in the refinance field, and the thrust of its policies is to improve the quantity and
quality of mortgage finance. The small refinance fund, administered by the Housing
Corporation is geared to assisting families in low to medium cost houses in a last resort
situation. However, I am sure I made it clear at the time that other factors had to be taken
into account, even in those cases where the corporation might otherwise be able to assist. In
those instances where it is shown that families have been irresponsible in their raising of
excessive short-term mortgages, or have already clearly proved by their poor performance
that they are not capable of home ownership, then corporation assistance is unlikely to be
forthcoming.
(8/7/77)
Citrus Marketing Report
128. Mr H. N. AUSTIN (Hobson) asked the Minister of Agriculture: When does he expect
to receive from Massey University the report on citrus marketing on which it is understood
the Kerikeri irrigation proposals will be based?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Agriculture: The report on the citrus market study being carried out by the Massey
University Market Research Centre is due to be received by the Ministry next month. The
report should provide additional information, upon which a decision can be made on the
proposed Kerikeri irrigation scheme.
(8/7/77)
Wages Statistics
129, Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Labour: What is (a) the weekly
average ordinary-time wage for males; (b) the average total weekly wage for males; and (c)
the combined (male and female) average ordinary-time weekly wage?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The results of the latest half-yearly
employment information survey are now available, and reveal that at April of this year the
weekly average ordinary-time wage for males was $129.52, the average total weekly wage for
males was $141.27, and the combined male and female ordinary-time weekly wage was
$118.16.
(8/7/77)
Linden Hostel for Unsettled Students
130. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: When does he
expect the Linden hostel for unsettled students to open?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare: New foster parents for this. home were recently appointed,
and they moved in on 2 July. The first children are expected to be placed in the home on 12
July.
(8/7/77)
Inflation-Control
131. Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition) asked the Minister of
Finance: Is the control of inflation still the Government's main priority; and, if so, what
additional steps does it propose to reverse the present trend?


## p. 1853 (#309) ###########################################

3 August
1853
Questions and Replies
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: Inflation was one of the four
major problems areas which the Government inherited when it took office, and further
reducing inflation remains one of the Government's main priorities. Quarterly movements in
the consumer price index have reflected in recent quarters price increases which were
deferred during last year's price freeze, as well as the timing of various Government charge
increases and pricing decisions deferred for up to 3 years by the Labour Government.
Quarterly movements are not currently indicative of the underlying trend of inflation.
Annual figures, which are therefore more indicative of the underlying trend, show that price
increases over the last year have clearly been slower than in the previous 2 years. The
Government is not planning to reverse this trend.
(19/7/77)
Motor Spirits Distribution Inquiry
132. Mr McLAY (Birkenhead) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Has he seen the
booklet The Dinkum Oil—about New Zealand and the international oil companies—written
by Mr G. H. Andersen, secretary of the Northern Drivers Union, and published by that
union; if so, can he confirm that Mr Andersen was a member of the Commission of Inquiry
into the Distribution of Motor Spirits and Ancillary Products appointed by the previous
Labour Government, and can he advise whether any restrictions were imposed upon
members of that commission as to the subsequent use they might make of information
supplied to them in the course of their official inquiry?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: I have seen
the booklet The Dinkum Oil, and I can confirm that the author, Mr G. H. Andersen, was a
member of the Commission of Inquiry into the Distribution of Motor Spirits and Ancillary
Products. In the Order in Council which established the commission, members were directed
that they were not at any time to disclose information obtained in the exercise of their
powers, except information received at a sitting open to the public.
(19/7/77)
Inflation-Estimate
133. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister of Finance: What is the
Government's present estimate of the inflation likely in the September quarter of 1977?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: The Government has not made
a forecast of inflation in the September quarter. However, the information available at
present suggests that the rise in prices will be lower than that recorded in the June quarter.
(19/7/77)
Paraplegics Resulting from Traffic Accidents
134. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Health: How many
paraplegics have been recorded as a result of traffic accidents in the years 1972, 1973, 1974,
1975, and 1976?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: As the diagnosis of paraplegia is not finally
determined until the patient is ready for discharge the following figures refer to discharged
patients from public hospitals as provided by the National Health Statistic Centre: 1972, 18;
1973, 14; and 1974, 28. The figures are not at present available from that source for 1975 or
1976. However, Middlemore and Christchurch Hospitals treat the majority of these cases,
and the numbers recorded at those two hospitals were: 1975, 18; and 1976, 30.
(19/7/77)
Inflation-Causes
135. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Finance: Has the Government
called for another full report, similar to that of January last, to find out the causes of the
present level of inflation, and, if so, will it make that report public?


## p. 1854 (#310) ###########################################

1854
3 August
Questions and Replies
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: A report analysing the
components of the increase in the consumer price index for the second quarter of 1977 has
been received by the Government. Its contents were incorporated in the press statement
released by the Minister of Trade and Industry on Thursday, 7 July, and formed the basis of
his speech in the House on Friday, 8 July. If the honourable member has not seen the
statement, I am sure the office of the Minister of Trade and Industry will be pleased to
supply a copy.
(19/7/77)
NAC Services, Taupo
136. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services: What plans exist to extend NAC services to and from Taupo?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: NAC has no plans to extend its services to and from Taupo. However, its existing
services are being rescheduled to provide a better service as from 19 August.
(19/7/77)
Consumer Price Index-Percentage Increases
137. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Statistics: What
are the three quarters with the greatest percentage increase in the consumer price index since
1965?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: Since 1965 the three quarters
with the greatest percentage increase in the consumer price index have been the March 1976
quarter increase of 4.4 percent, the June 1976 quarter increase of 4.5 percent, and the June
1977 quarter increase of 4.8 percent. This group of higher quarters was balanced by the three
lowest quarters since June 1975, the September 1976 quarter of 3.2 percent, the December
1976 quarter of 2.8 percent, and the March 1977 quarter of 2.6 percent. This suggests that
any quarterly movement should be related to annual figures—this year running at 13 to 14
percent to show the underlying trends.
(19/7/77)
Car Assembly Plants
138. Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: How
many separate car assembly plants are there in New Zealand?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: In New
Zealand at present there are 15 separate car assembly plants operated by 9 companies.
(19/7/77)
Inflation-Average Rate
139. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central), on behalf of Mr COURTNEY (Nelson), asked
the Minister of Statistics: What is the average rate of inflation measured by the consumer
price index in the six quarters since the National Government took office—that is, since the
December quarter of 1975?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: Between the December quarter
1975 and the June quarter 1977 the all groups consumer price index increased on average by
3.7 percent per quarter.
(19/7/77)
OECD Agricultural Products
140. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Prime Minister: What progress was he able
to make on his recent visit to Paris regarding the inclusion of agricultural products in the
OECD trade pledge?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) replied: After deciding to renew the trade
pledge for a further year, the OECD Council went on to agree that in the words of the
communiqué: "Full use should be made of the existing possibilities for consultation in order
to find and implement multilaterally acceptable solutions to trade problems, whether
industrial or agricultural, in a manner which would take into account the interests of all


## p. 1855 (#311) ###########################################

3 August
1855
Questions and Replies
concerned." The wording "whether industrial or agricultural" was inserted at New
Zealand's initiative. It provides for the first time explicit recognition that the pledge covers
agricultural as well as industrial trade, though I must make it clear that at no time has the
pledge ever been regarded by New Zealand as excluding agriculture.
(19/7/77)
Social Welfare Beneficiaries—Allowable Income
141. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What
increase per week in allowable income for a beneficiary is implied as at today by the
Government's election policy announcing: "For all beneficiaries allowable income, without
any reduction of benefit, will be the difference between the amount of benefit payable to a
married couple and 80 percent of the average ordinary-time wage. This amount will increase
automatically with movements in ordinary wages. Currently the married couple benefit is
$51.26", when will this level of allowable income be authorised; and will he confirm that
those to whom this allowable income will be available include those on national superannua-
tion with wives under 60, and those in receipt of the domestic purposes benefit?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: In accordance with Govern-
ment policy, the rates of social security benefits are at present under review having regard to
the increase in the cost of living, as measured by the consumer price index during the first 6
months of 1977. Until this review is completed it would be inappropriate to answer the first
part of the honourable member's question. I can assure him, however, that the Govern-
ment's undertaking to restructure the benefit income test will be implemented during the life
of this Parliament. I can also assure him that the new income test will apply to those national
superannuitants receiving payments for a non-qualified spouse and to domestic purposes
beneficiaries.
(19/7/77)
Parliamentary Receptions for Women's Sports Teams
142. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: On what
previous occasions and for whom in the last 5 years has a parliamentary reception been
accorded to an all-women international sports team touring New Zealand?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: There has been one parliamen-
tary reception over the past 5 years for an all-women international sporting team visiting
New Zealand. This was for the Australian women's cricket team in March 1975.
(19/7/77)
Offences Against the Person
143. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Police: How many
offences against the person were reported during the June quarter 1977?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: Offence statistics for the June
quarter of 1977 are not yet available and are not expected to be known until early August.
However, for the information of the honourable member, 2946 offences against the person
were reported to the police during the March quarter of 1977 compared with 2814 for the
equivalent 1976 quarter.
(19/7/77)
International Lending-Treble A Credit Rating
144. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Finance: In which international
lending market does New Zealand have a treble A credit rating?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: The United States domestic
capital market is the only major capital market which requires that a formal credit rating be
made before a borrower can enter that market. In this market New Zealand enjoys treble A
status. The other major international capital markets do not have such a formal rating
system, leaving it to the particular market to signal the attractiveness of a borrower by the
response to the loan terms and conditions offered. As evidence of that fact, in 1974 the
Labour Government borrowed in Germany at 9.25 percent, and this year the National
Government borrowed in the same currency at 6.25 percent.
(19/7/77)


## p. 1856 (#312) ###########################################

1856
3 August
Questions and Replies
Disabled Persons Community Welfare Act 1975
145. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What
financial provision has been made in his department's budget to enable the implementation
of the Disabled Persons Community Welfare Act 1975?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: The matter is
currently under consideration.
(20/7/77)
Pikes Point Tip—Reclamation Extension
146. MARILYN WARING (Raglan), on behalf of Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa),
asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: Has he seen the article in the New Zealand Herald of
30 June in which the Auckland Regional Authority is reported as investigating another
extension of Pikes Point tip involving more reclamation of the Upper Manukau Harbour?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: I have seen the article referred
to. The idea of a further reclamation of the Manukau Harbour to extend the Pikes Point East
rubbish tip area seems to be at the exploratory stage only. Should the authority decide to go
ahead, I understand it will need special local legislation and the agreement of the Auckland
Harbour Board to promote that legislation.
(20/7/77)
Worker Control in Industry
147. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he read the report in the
Evening Post of 5 July 1977 in which it is stated: "The establishment of autonomous working
groups or semi-autonomous groups to give workers control over their own working place was
advocated today by the Minister of Justice"; and, if so, can he indicate any steps taken by the
Government in the implementation of this policy?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: As my colleague the Minister of
Justice pointed out in the same context, the major effort for improved industrial relations
must be made voluntarily by both management and the unions. The role of the Government
is to provide supportive services to firms contemplating innovation in industrial relations.
My department is accumulating information on how worker involvement can best operate in
New Zealand through research and discussions with industry. A short booklet to assist those
wishing to establish worker participation schemes is available, and officers are also available
for discussions with firms and unions who request it.
(20/7/77)
Immigration from Rhodesia and South Africa
148. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Immigration: Has he seen the
information given on 22 June 1977 to the Opposition research unit by the Department of
Statistics showing that there were from Rhodesia and South Africa 288 arrivals in 1974 and
186 arrivals in 1977, and from South Africa 269 arrivals in 1974 and 166 in 1977, and, if so,
are these figures correct?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration) replied: I have seen the information which was
given to the Opposition research unit by the Department of Statistics, and this information
can be misleading. The figures of 288 arrivals from South Africa and Rhodesia in 1974 and
269 arrivals from South Africa can be interpreted to mean that there were 19 arrivals from
Rhodesia in 1974. However, the Department of Statistics has since advised that such a
conclusion would be invalid as with such a small figure the sampling area is so large as to
make the conclusion meaningless.
(20/7/77)
Domestic Purposes Benefit-Processing
149. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What is the present
average length of time for a domestic purposes beneficiary's application for additional
assistance to be processed by his department?


## p. 1857 (#313) ###########################################

3 August
1857
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare: "On average, the present length of time for a domestic
purposes beneficiary's application for additional benefit to be processed by my department is
2 to 3 weeks."
(20/7/77)
Hostel Supervisors' Salary Scales
150. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Education: What is the present
position on hostel supervisors' salary scales?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have recently approved new
maximum rates of remuneration for teachers involved in the management and supervision of
school hostels, and secondary school boards are being advised of these revised limits. Boards
will now be able to review the rates which they pay teachers for hostel duties and seek the
approval of the Industrial Commission for any increases which are to be granted before the
expiry of the Wage Adjustment Regulations in August.
(20/7/77)
Consumer Price Index-Increase
151. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central), on behalf of Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt.
Albert), asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: What action does he propose to take to
rectify the situation revealed by the recent record jump of 4.8 percent in the consumer price
index?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: As I
indicated in a recent public statement, I attach more importance to the annual rate at which
prices are increasing than the rate for a particular quarter. The increase in the consumer
price index for the year to June 1977 was 14 percent. It is the lowest annual figure for the last
3 years to June. I believe that the Government stabilisation measures will ensure that the
downward trend will continue during the year to June 1978.
(20/7/77)
Lyttelton Health Centre
152. Miss DEWE (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Health: Can he advise whether he has
received an approach from the North Canterbury Hospital Board on the subject of the
proposed health centre at Lyttelton, requesting a revision of the formula laid down for the
calculation of the annual rental?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: Yes, an approach has been made by the
North Canterbury Hospital Board suggesting that rents for health centres be based on 5
percent of total cost instead of the 8.5 percent basis used at present. The North Canterbury
Hospital Board also sought discretionary authority to make final rental charges on an
individual basis according to merit.
(20/7/77)
Electricity Price
153. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: In view of
the recent increase of 27.3 percent for the June quarter and 41.6 percent in the June year in
the fuel and light subgroup of the consumer price index, will he undertake to recommend to
the Cabinet that there should be no further electricity price increases for the remainder of
the Government's term?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: My answer is no. The question
of an electricity price increase will be considered at the appropriate time, which is later this
year.
(20/7/77)
Billfish
154. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Can he indicate how
many billfish were caught by game fishermen in the last fishing season, and how many were
caught by commercial fishermen operating out of New Zealand ports?


## p. 1858 (#314) ###########################################

1858
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Minister of Fisheries) replied: New Zealand commercial fishermen
do not normally catch billfish, and the Ministry does not require fishermen's returns to show
how many of these fish were taken accidentally. For the calendar year 1975 data received by
the Ministry from the big-game fishing clubs showed that 842 billfish were caught by game
fishermen in New Zealand waters. This figure is composed of 18 black marlin, 17 blue
marlin, 249 striped marlin, one broadbill swordfish, and 557 mako sharks. The figures for the
1976 catches have not yet been received by the Ministry.
(20/7/77)
Energy Price Rises-Flow-on Effects
155. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: What
specific actions will he take to counter the flow-on effects of the recent energy price rises as
revealed by the huge rise of 27.3 percent in the June quarter in the fuel and light subgroup of
the consumer price index?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: The increase in the June
quarter for the fuel and light subgroup of the consumer price index reflects the increase in
energy prices that took effect from 1 April 1977. These price increases bring electricity prices
back to reality after being frozen by the previous Labour Government. We are all aware that
the true situation was hidden by asking the taxpayer to subsidise electricity charges by way of
the Stabilisation vote to the tune of $18.5 million in 1974-75, and $13.1 million in 1975-76.
Had there not been a change of Government, and the introduction of new policies to remove
the subsidy by unfreezing the charges, the Stabilisation vote for electricity, as estimated
by the Treasury, would have been as high as $52 million in 1976-77. No specific actions are
contemplated as a result of this recent price adjustment. It is an essential part of energy
policy development that energy supplies are properly priced, having regard to their true
value and their true cost.
(20/7/77)
Teachers, Non-graduate-Salary Review
156. MARILYN WARING (Raglan), on behalf of Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa),
asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the article in the New Zealand Herald of 30
June regarding salary increases for senior secondary school teachers, and, if so, in view of
the fact that there is some shortage in certain specialised areas, can he indicate whether the
PPTA is espousing the cause of non-graduate professionals, including technical staff, in
salary reviews he as Minister has initiated?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The application for a review of
secondary teachers salaries received from the PPTA does include proposals to review the
salaries of non-graduate teachers. The increases mentioned in the article of 30 June resulted
from a review of margins for responsibility, which had no relevance to the salary levels of
non-graduates as compared with graduate teachers.
(20/7/77)
Transport-Price Increases
157. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: In the wake of
the recent increase of 5.3 percent in the June quarter alone in the transportation group of the
consumer price index, will he undertake to recommend to Cabinet that there should be no
more price increases in the transport field until the Government can assure the House that
the industry is operating at maximum efficiency?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: I do not consider that it
would be reasonable or practicable at this time to place a freeze on transport charges across
the board as the member proposes. Such a freeze would have the effect of artificially
disorting pricing policies in the transport sector generally. Policies adopted by the Govern-
ment to control inflation in the economy as a whole should have beneficial effects in the
transport sector.
(20/7/77)
Social Welfare Beneficiaries-Concession
158. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Has he seen the
Labour Party advertisement in the Wanganui Herald dated 21 May 1977 which states,
"Those who really need the pension have lost TV, travel, telephone rebates", and, if so, has
this claim any validity?


## p. 1859 (#315) ###########################################

3 August
1859
Questions and Replies
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: I have seen the advertisement
referred to, and the claim has no validity whatsoever. The only national superannuitants who
lost the telephone and television concessions from 9 February 1977 were those who were
formerly receiving a reduced age benefit because their private income was in excess of the
exemption of $884 a year. On transfer to national superannuation, which is paid regardless
of financial circumstances, these people received a greater increase in cash-in-hand
payments than those who were previously receiving a full age benefit. It is therefore quite
ridiculous to @laim that these particular people represented those most in need of the
concessions. The travel concession is the responsibility of the Minister of Railways, but I
understand that this concession will not be withdrawn until the rate of national superannua-
tion is increased to 80 percent of the average ordinary-time wage from 31 August 1978.
Contrary to the statement made in the advertisement, no national superannuitant has
therefore lost the travel concession.
(21/7/77)
Transport-Flow-on Effects of Price Increases
159. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Transport: What specific
actions has he taken and what further steps will he take to counter the flow-on effects of
recent price increases in the transport field, as indicated by the June quarter rise of 5.3
percent in the transportation group of the consumer price index?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: As I indicated in reply to an
earlier question on this subject, policies adopted by the Government to control inflation in
the economy as a whole will have beneficial effects in the transport sector.
(21/7/77)
Manawatu-Southern Hawke's Bay Roads
160. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Works and Development: What
plans or studies have been undertaken to improve the dangerous and costly access problems
between the Manawatu and North Wairarapa, Southern Hawke's Bay in the Manawatu
Gorge route and the Pahiatua Track, neither of which is suitable for heavy traffic?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: Although prelimi-
nary investigations have been carried out for a new road to replace the present highway
through the Manawatu Gorge, current limitations on roading resources mean that it will be
some years before a start on construction work could be considered. In the meantime, the
National Roads Board has agreed to a programme of minor widening work being carried out
to provide adequate two-way traffic width throughout the present gorge route. Recent
improvement programmes on the Pahiatua Track and Saddle Hill roads have been under-
taken to ensure these roads are able to handle traffic during periods of emergency road
closures in the Manawatu Gorge.
(21/7/77)
Employment Information Survey-Average Weekly Wage
161. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Labour: In view of the Department
of Labour's half-yearly employment information survey, released on 6 July, would a person
receiving the average weekly wage, including overtime, be better or worse off in after-tax
terms than in October 1975, allowing for price increases as measured by the consumer price
index up to and including the June quarter 1977 record increase?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: After tax, overall wages and salaries,
but including overtime, adjusted for price inflation, were lower in April 1977 than in
October 1975. However, the terms of trade depreciated sharply in 1974, declining from a
level of 113 in the March quarter of 1974 to a level of 80 in the March quarter of 1977, the
most recent figure available. The real income of New Zealand as a whole has therefore
suffered a sharp fall due to the decline in purchasing power of the goods we produce for
export, and real wages and salaries have been adjusted towards this decline.
(21/7/77)


## p. 1860 (#316) ###########################################

1860
3 August
Questions and Replies
Meat and Wool Properties-Estimated Capital Expenditure
162. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What estimated capital
expenditure for future growth has there been on meat and wool properties over the past 12
months compared with the 3 previous years on an annual basis?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture) replied: Official figures for aggregate
capital expenditure on farm holdings are available only up until March 1975. A frequently
used proxy for investment on sheep farms is expenditure per stock unit. Because this figure
comprises some expenditure which is capital in nature, it can be used as an indicator of the
overall investment on sheep farms. It is generally accepted that about $4.40 per stock unit in
real terms-1965-66 input prices-is required for maintenance on sheep and beef farms. Last
year, real expenditure per stock unit is estimated to have equalled $5.07, a 9 percent lift over
the $4.67 per stock unit recorded in 1975-76. This in turn was 12 percent greater than the
depressed level of $4.19 for 1974-75. Recent estimates of livestock numbers suggest that the
investment levels achieved over the last 3 years are about to be reflected in a renewed
upward movement in total livestock units.
(21/7/77)
Consumer Price Index-Revision
163. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn), on behalf of Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui), asked. the
Minister of Statistics: In view of the recent large but unequal rises in the various subgroups
of the consumer price index and the resulting changes in the consumer expenditure pattern
on which the index is based, will he inform the House the date on which the next revision of
that index will commence, and that on which the new weighting pattern will first be used to
compile the index?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: I am advised by the Govern-
ment Statistician that the present pattern is still reasonably representative, but that work on
the revision of the consumer price index began on 1 April 1976. The Government Statistician
expects the department to complete the revision on target by the end of the 1977 calendar
year, when he will update the expression base of the index to the December quarter 1977
equalling 1000. I would emphasise that the present revision is of a limited nature, and that
there is no intention to depart from the broad concepts and expenditure coverage inherent in
the present index which follows the recommendations of the 1971 consumer price index
revision advisory committee.
(21/7/77)
Consumer Price Index Increase-One Income Family
164. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Statistics: What
increase in gross wages will be required for a married earner with a non-working wife and
two children, one under 5, on $129.52 as at 1 April 1977 and whose wife receives the family
benefit for both children, to maintain the family standard of living in the face of the record
rise of 4.8 percent in the consumer price index between the March and June quarters of this
year?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Statistics) replied: In the hypothetical case
referred to, the earner, after allowing for any tax rebates to which he is entitled, would
receive an after tax take-home pay of $100.51. A 4.8 percent increase on $100.51 if evenly
applied would make it $105.33. The pre-tax gross family income would, to arrive at $105.33,
be $141.45, an increase of $11.93. I need hardly say that this simplistic question, without
regard to the state of the economy and to productivity, entirely overlooks the inflationary
impact of such an approach to wages and fiscal policy. It also overlooks the impact of jobs
and employment.
(21/7/77)
Fertiliser and Lime Applications
165. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What are the total
fertiliser and lime applications on farms this season compared with 1974-75 and 1975-76,
and what percentages were applied by air spread and by ground in those years?


## p. 1861 (#317) ###########################################

3 August
1861
Questions and Replies
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture) replied: Fertiliser statistics for deliveries
from fertiliser works are available on a 30 June year basis while those for limestone
production are available on a calendar year basis. Consequently no comparison is possible
regarding lime usage this year compared with the two previous years. Official limestone
production statistics for 1977 will not be available from the Mines Department until at least
April 1978. The most recent available statistics of fertiliser and lime usage are: fertiliser for
the year ended 30 June 1974-75, 1 725 811 tonnes; 1975-76, 2 177 898 tonnes; 1976-77
provisional figure, 2 162 308 tonnes. Lime usage figures are: year ended 31 December 1974,
1 539 583 tonnes; 1975, 1 502 496 tonnes; 1976 provisional figure, 1 686 473 tonnes. There
are no official statistics showing the percentage of fertiliser and lime applied by air and by
ground during 1974-75 and 1975-76. A survey carried out recently by my ministry, however,
based on payments of bounties during the last year, shows the following percentages: by air,
fertiliser 44, lime 9; by ground, fertiliser 46, lime 85. It is well known that the percentages of
fertiliser applied from the air during the previous 2 years were lower than that for this year.
(21/7/77)
Consumer Price Index-Other Foods Subgroup
166. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry:
What specific measures, if any, will he recommend to Cabinet to reduce the rate of price
increases on grocery foods, beverages, sweets, meals away from home, and takeaways,
indicated by the 38 percent increase in the "other foods" subgroup of the consumer price
index since December 1975?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: The relatively
larger movements in the "other foods" group of the consumer price index since December
1975 compared with the movement in the index as a whole reflects in the main the relatively
large movements in the imported cost of such commodities as tea, cocoa, coffee, and dried
fruit. The pricing legislation and pricing policies in respect of these goods are no different
from those applying to other goods represented in the consumer price index, and I shall not
be recommending to Cabinet that different policies be adopted for different products
depending on their impact on the consumer price index movements.
(21/7/77)
Unemployed-Special Workers for Tree Planting
167. Mr COUCH (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Labour: How many unemployed are
planned to be used this season on special work for tree planting, and how does this number
compare with that for the past 2 years?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: There is no analysis of the numbers of
special workers engaged on tree planting in the New Zealand Forest Service. However, the
Forest Service expects to employ up to 1,500 special workers this year, and all of those will
be employed on work either directly or indirectly related to planting trees. The maximum
number employed by the New Zealand Forest Service in 1976 was 1510, and in 1975, 1242.
(22/7/77)
Imports of Office Equipment
168. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Can he
explain why the volume of imports of typewriting, calculating, and accounting machines rose
between 1975 and 1976?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: Provisional
statistics show that the volume of imports of calculators rose in the 1975-76 year but has
since declined. The rise has been attributed to the rapid rise in popularity of the pocket
calculator. At the same time the volume of imports of typewriters and accounting machines
declined.
(22/7/77)
Post Office Capital Development Programme
169. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What proportion of
the Post Office's captial development programme is funded from Post Office revenue?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: For the year just ended the
proportion is expected to be about 60 percent.
(22/7/77)


## p. 1862 (#318) ###########################################

1862
3 August
Questions and Replies
Masterton Gas Company
170. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Will he
confirm the report in the June issue of Gas News that, "substitute natural gas (SNG) has
been produced in an eleventh-hour attempt to save the Masterton gas undertaking from
extinction", and the further quote of Mr D. Craven, commercial manager of the Natural Gas
Corporation, that, "We have proved the system: all that remains is the political decision as
to whether the Masterton gas undertaking should be rescued"; and, if this is the case, will the
political decision be taken and conveyed to the Masterton undertaking before 31 October,
when the gasworks is due to close?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: An experimental unit using
propane as a feedstock has shown that technically a substitute natural gas can be produced
successfully by this method. However, as far as I am aware, the Masterton Borough Council
is not intending to reconsider its decision to close the gasworks.
(22/7/77)
Magistrate's Court, Papakura
171. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Justice: What, if any,
improvements in staffing have been implemented at the Papakura Magistrate's Court since
December 1975?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: Approval to fill two additional
positions was given earlier this month. One is a clerical position and the second a position as
terminal operator for the Wanganui computer system. These have been the only increases in
staffing since 1974, when there was a comprehensive review of staffing and the establishment
fixed at a level sufficient to meet the needs of the office, but there has been a subsequent
review of the grading of the registrar's position. As a consequence of this, a more senior
appointment has been made.
(22/7/77)
Foster Care Study
172. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can
he say when the Department of Social Welfare study on foster care will be completed, and
whether the results of that study will be made public?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The Department of Social
Welfare's foster care study is a major piece of research, which has three data collection
phases. The first began early in the year, and the third phase will be completed by the end of
August. Some preliminary results will be available to myself and to the Department of Social
Welfare by late November or December of this year, but the full analysis of all the matters
covered by the research will not be completed until about mid-1978. It is intended to publish
a report on the result.
(22/7/77)
Farm Settlement Blocks, Wairarapa
173. Mr COUCH (Wairarapa) asked the Minister of Lands: What area of Crown land is
being developed for farm settlement blocks in the Wairarapa land district?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Minister of Fisheries) replied on behalf of the Minister of Lands:
The Department of Lands and Survey is currently developing in the Wairarapa district
7598 ha of Crown land, which is expected to be subdivided into 7 sheep and 23 dairy farms.
(22/7/77)
Wanganui Education Board-Administrative Grant
174. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the
observation in the Wanganui Education Board's annual report to 31 January 1977 that
"despite submission of a realistic budget to the department early in 1976 the board was not


## p. 1863 (#319) ###########################################

3 August
1863
Questions and Replies
formally notified until 7 January 1977 of the amount of the administration grant which was
approved for the financial year which ended 3 weeks later", and, if so, can he explain this
lengthy delay?
Hon. L W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have seen the report referred to
and, although it is true that approved grants for 1976-77 were not notified until 7 January
1977, I am sure the board will know, through its membership of the Education Boards
Association, the reasons for the apparent delay. There are 10 education boards, and their
grants are considered on a national basis and have regard to the provisions made in the
annual estimates of expenditure of my department. Discussion was held with representatives
of the Education Boards Association as to the levels considered reasonable for each board,
bearing in mind the results of operations in the previous year. Two boards did not supply the
latter information until August 1976, despite repeated reminders. An additional factor
contributing to the apparent delay was the need to take account of increases of salaries,
which comprise 80 percent of boards' administrative costs. The Wanganui Education Board
and others did not supply the estimated cost of the 25 June 1976 salary order until October
1976. A further point worth recording is that the total amount shown in the Budget
announced on 29 July 1976 for the adminstration grant for all boards was $5.84 million. This
was an increase of nearly 25 percent over the 1975-76 expenditure, and I believe it would
have been reasonable, because of the national picture, for boards generally to expect an
increase of this size.
(22/7/77)
Subsidies-Removal
175. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Finance: Has he seen the Labour
Party advertisement in the Wanganui Herald dated 21 May 1977, which states, "We are told
that the removal of subsidies and increased Government charges are to help New Zealand's
economy", and, if so, will he state what subsidies have been removed since December 1972,
what their value was, and for what reasons they were removed?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Finance: The list is fairly long, and I propose to round off amounts to the first
decimal point. The Minister of Finance replies as follows: "No, I have not seen the Labour
Party advertisement referred to in the question. Subsidies removed since December 1972
and their cost in the last full year of the subsidy are: bread, $5.6 million in 1975-76; eggs, $1.7
million in 1975-76; flour, $20.2 million in 1975-76; meat, 10.6 million in 1973-74; sugar, $11.6
million in 1973-74; wool, $21.8 million in 1973-74; Post Office, $38 million in 1975-76;
Railways, $68.5 million in 1975-76; and Electricity, $13 million in 1975-76. The subsidies on
bread, eggs, flour, and sugar were removed to allow the price of these products to reflect
their true cost of production; those on sheepmeat and wool to increase the price on the
domestic market to the level of export returns; and those on the Post Office, Railways, and
Electricity to increase the prices of these services from the artificially low levels at which they
had been held to nearer the true cost to the community of providing them."
(22/7/77)
Maori Language Teachers
176. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the fact
that the Department of Education recruitment booklet for 1977 merely states that "a course
of secondary teacher training for Maori language teachers may be held at certain teachers'
colleges in 1978", how does he reconcile this with the National Party's promise in the full
1975 manifesto to expand the present 1-year Maori language/Maori studies courses so that
those qualifying can also teach in primary and intermediate schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Special measures were introduced
last year to expand opportunities for graduates of the 1 year adult Maori language course to
qualify to teach in primary and intermediate schools as well as in secondary schools. These
measures are set down in the Education Gazette of 2 December 1976. Of the 44 students who
entered the 1974 course and became eligible for certification at the end of 1976, 14 were
awarded a general teaching certificate. A further 20 who were awarded a specialist
certificate have received advice about additional courses they would need to take to teach in
primary and intermediate schools if they wish to do so.
(22/7/77)


## p. 1864 (#320) ###########################################

1864
3 August
Questions and Replies
Brucellosis and Tb Eradication Schemes-Staff Numbers
177. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Could he tell the House
the number of staff employed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in brucellosis and
tuberculosis eradication schemes in testing, analysing, and administration, compared with
the number in the past 3 years?
Hon. J. B. BOLGER (Associate Minister of Agriculture): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Agriculture. Ministry staff employed either full-time or part-time in relation to the on-
farm testing, laboratory testing, and administration functions of the brucellosis and tuber-
culosis disease eradication schemes for the current season totals 633. Staff employed over the
previous three seasons number as follows: for 1973-74, 646; for 1974-75, 689; and for
1975-76, 673.
(22/7/77)
Nuclear Bomb Testing at Mururoa
178. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: What steps
has the New Zealand Government taken to indicate New Zealand's opposition to the
conducting of nuclear bomb tests in the South Pacific by the French Government at
Mururoa?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Acting Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: Since the
French Government commenced underground testing in 1975, following the cessation of
atmospheric tests, the New Zealand Government has viewed the conducting of each test
with the same regret with which it has witnessed underground tests carried out by each of the
other four nuclear weapon states. There is a difference between atmospheric tests, which
pose greater environmental hazards-which a multilateral treaty, the partial test ban treaty,
was designed to prohibit-and underground tests which every nuclear weapon state has
continued to conduct in the absence of any proscriptive multilateral treaty. New Zealand
does not, therefore, single out France for condemnation, but rather condemns all nuclear
testing by all states in all environments and has urged the nuclear weapon states to conclude
a comprehensive test ban treaty as a matter of urgency. I shall arrange for the honourable
member to receive a copy of the Government's latest statement on the subject of a
comprehensive test ban treaty as soon as it is available at an early date.
(22/7/77)
Telephone Exchanges-Temporary Installations, Auckland
179. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What is the
expected capacity of the four temporary telephone exchanges to be installed later this year in
Auckland?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Postmaster-General: The four transportable telephone exchanges have recently been
ordered and will be installed progressively from late this year. The capacity of Howick is
1000 lines, and Massey, Browns Bay, and Torbay 1600 lines each.
(22/7/77)
Ministerial Private Secretaries-Women Employed
180. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: How many women are
in the corps of ministerial private secretaries?
Mr COMBER (Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the Minister of Internal Affairs) replied
on behalf of the Minister of Internal Affairs: There have been no women in the corps of
ministerial private secretaries since the retirement of Miss E. M. Mansfield on 31 March
1970.
(22/7/77)
Unemployment-Labour Department Survey
181. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he confirm that the
many hundreds of women who have lost or who will soon lose jobs following the closure of
Millers' two clothing factories in Christchurch, the impending closure of the Kaiapoi
Woollen Mills, and the closure of Unilever's factory in Christchurch, will not be represented


## p. 1865 (#321) ###########################################

3 August
1865
Questions and Replies
in the official statistics of the registered unemployed, and when does he intend to carry out
the promised Department of Labour survey to establish how many people are actually
unemployed in New Zealand, in the light of the 1976 census returns, which confirmed that
the actual unemployment figure was already above 20 000 in March 1976?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Any unemployed person seeking
work, whether male or female, married or single, may register with the Department of
Labour. This has been the case under both Governments, and I can assure the member for
Avon that official unemployment statistics include any married women who have become
redundant, are seeking full-time work, and have enrolled with my department for assistance
in obtaining another job. Last year I indicated that the Government was considering the
possibility of a household labour force survey to measure employment and unemployment. I
have convened a technical working party from members of my own department and the
Department of Statistics, and this working party is at present investigating in detail the
feasibility of undertaking such a survey.
(27/7/77)
Imports-Raw Materials and Manufacturing Components
182. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry:
What proportion of total imports is made up of raw materials and components for
manufacturing industries operating within New Zealand?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied on behalf of the Minister of Trade
and Industry: The end use of some imported raw materials and components can be inputs for
industry or consumer items, and for this reason a precise answer cannot be given. Table 54 of
the Monthly Abstract of Statistics for April 1977 indicates that those categories listed as raw
materials or component imports for industry in the 1976 June year accounted for 66.6
percent of all imports.
(27/7/77)
Energy Conservation Policy
183. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Does he
support an energy policy that gives encouragement to the use of energy by way of reduced
tariffs for heating swimming pools, and, if not, what measures does he propose to take that
would more properly reflect conservation and social needs rather than the ability to pay?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Energy Resources: "I do not endorse the action of energy supplying authorities giving
reduced tariff rates for such purposes as the heating of swimming pools. The Electrical
Supply Authorities Association is, at my request, examining the propriety of such rates in
the light of the new energy situation. I am to make a formal approach to the gas association
on this same subject shortly. Until such time as the members of the associations have had a
reasonable opportunity to act appropriately, I will not speculate whether Government
measures will be necessary, or what form they might take."
(27/7/77)
Young Physically Disabled in Geriatric Wards
184. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Health: Is it true, as was stated in the
television programme "Access" on Sunday, 17 July 1977, that it is common practice to place
young physically disabled people, such as those suffering from multiple sclerosis, in geriatric
wards of public hospitals, and, if so, (a) how many of these young people are so accommo-
dated; and (b) does he have any plans to change this situation?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: In certain hospitals when other more
appropriate accommodation is not available, it may be necessary to nurse some severely
disabled younger patients in geriatric wards. The actual number so nursed at present is not
available, and could only be obtained by circulating all hospital boards. This would take
some time, and the final result would not be accurate as it would not include those in similar
circumstances in private hospitals. The Department of Health is well aware of the accommo-
dation needs of this group of patients, and has stressed to all hospital boards that they should
survey the needs of this group in their areas, and, where necessary, make purpose-built
accommodation available.
(27/7/77)


## p. 1866 (#322) ###########################################

1866
3 August
Questions and Replies
Apples-Export Prices
185. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What are the
present prices for export apples compared with prices at this time last year, and is the Apple
and Pear Marketing Board's deficit likely to be reduced this year as a result of increased
export receipts?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture) replied: This information was supplied by
the New Zealand Apple and Pear Marketing Board as it is not available within the Ministry
of Agriculture and Fisheries. The prices are indicative only of each market, as each market
has different returns for each apple variety and for each size within the variety. Detailed
prices could be obtained from the board for particular varieties if both the market and the
count size are specified. Last week export apple prices in the United Kingdom/European
market averaged $16.80 a case, compared with an average of $7.75 a case for the same week
last export season. Returns to date this season on that market have averaged $13.60 a case,
compared to $7.80 for the same period last season. Present indications are that the Apple
and Pear Marketing Board's industry reserve account deficit will be extinguished as a result
of this year's successful trading.
(27/7/77)
Wellington Hospital Board-Acquisition of Residential Properties
186. Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) asked the Minister of Health: What is the urgent
priority" under which the Wellington Hospital Board has decided to acquire residential
properties in its area by threatened use of powers under the Public Works Act?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: It is not true that the Wellington Hospital
Board is threatening to use the powers contained in the Public Works Act for acquisition of
property. The case referred to arose as a result of the board not advising the Ministry of
Works and Development that it no longer required the property concerned. The position has
been satisfactorily explained by the board's chief executive in a recent statement.
(27/7/77)
Mortgagee Sales
187. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister of Justice: How many sales have actually been
effected by the Registrar of the Supreme Court at the request of a mortgagee in each of the
past 4 years, and, during the same years, how many applications for such sales have been
lodged with the registrar?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: The number of sales effected, and
the number of applications for such sales lodged with the Supreme Court during the
preceding 4 years ended 31 December are as follows: 1973, 138 applications, and 50 sales;
1974, 100 applications, and 19 sales; 1975, 230 applications, and 54 sales; and 1976, 319
applications, and 76 sales.
(27/7/77)
Coal Deposits, Huntly-Testing of Private Land
188. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: Has any test boring to
prove coal deposits been undertaken on privately owned land in the Huntly area, and if so,
what steps have been taken to maintain the confidentiality of the results?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Mines: "Yes, drilling for coal has been carried out on private land in the Huntly area. The
results of this work are not given to the landowners, but are kept confidential to officials of
the Mines Department and the New Zealand Geological Survey."
(27/7/77)
Overseas Exchange from Visitors
189. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Finance: Can he inform the
House of the total overseas exchange earned by New Zealand from overseas visitors in the
1976-77 period, and how does this compare with the annual overseas exchange earned in
1972-73, 1973-74, and 1974-75?


## p. 1867 (#323) ###########################################

3 August
1867
Questions and Replies
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: Travel receipts recorded by the
Reserve Bank in the statistics of overseas exchange transactions amounted to $162.2 million
in the year ended June 1977. Travel receipts in the three earlier years referred to were as
follows: 1972-73, $65.1 million; 1973–74, $81.3 million; and 1974-75 $110 million. These
figures represent expenditure in New Zealand by overseas visitors on goods, accommoda-
tion, and other services, but do not include the fares paid to Air New Zealand by overseas
visitors travelling to and from New Zealand, which are included in the statistics of transport
earnings, and not available as a separate record.
(27/7/77)
Petroleum Exploration Licences, Taranaki
190. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Mines: When were the on-shore
petroleum exploration licences for the Taranaki areas first advertised; in what countries
were they advertised; how many tenders for each licence were received; and have any
licences actually been issued?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Mines: Areas of on-shore Taranaki were advertised in November and December 1975 as
being available for application for petroleum prospecting licences. Advertisements were
placed in five recognised petroleum publications, all having international circulation: the
World Oil Publication in the United States; the Oil and Gas Journal in the United States; and
three U.K. magazines-Petroleum Times, Off-shore, and Petroleum International. No appli-
cations were received in response to this advertising, and consequently no licences were
issued.
(27/7/77)
Post Office Operations Subsidy
191. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: To what extent was
the New Zealand taxpayer called upon to subsidise the operations of the Post Office in the
December years 1972 to 1975?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: The Post Office incurred losses
totalling $67.7 million in the 4 years commencing 1 April 1972 to 1 April 1975. Figures are
not available for calendar years. Except for the loss of $2 million in 1972, which was met by
borrowing additional funds, the losses were covered by subsidies from the vote Stabilisation.
(27/7/77)
Hansard-Delay in Publication
192. MR MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister in Charge of the Government
Printing Office: What is the present time gap between proceedings in the House and the
publication of Hansard, how has this time altered in the last 5 years, and is there any
possibility that the Hansard record can be published more quickly?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister in Charge of the Government Printing Office) replied:
The present time gap between proceedings in the House and the publication of Hansard is 6
to 7 weeks. This is 1 to 2 weeks longer than the average time for the years 1972 to 1975. In
1976 Hansard was produced for the first time by computerised typesetting equipment and,
because of problems with the new system, the publication of Hansard became progressively
delayed until by the end of the session it was 3 months late. This year Hansard has been
redesigned to facilitate a quicker turnround, and the Government Printer is aiming at a
3-week to 4-week time gap.
(27/7/77)
Truancy
193. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What representa-
tions has he received about the growing incidence of truancy, and what steps has he
authorised to deal with that trend?


## p. 1868 (#324) ###########################################

1868
3 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have received representation
from some education boards and secondary school boards concerning truancy, which has
been present in New Zealand schools in some form for very many years. My department, in
association with other departments and primary, intermediate, and secondary school princi-
pals, has been actively concerned with the issue of truancy for more than a year. As a result
of inquiries and pilot studies, it now has in draft form a circular which will soon be released
to all principals of schools. The causes of truancy are complex, and the measures to be taken
to reduce it will require carefully co-ordinated activity by the schools and outside supportive
agencies. As well as the circular, which will give guidance to principals, the following
initiatives are being taken: a national survey on absenteeism; reviews of the teaching
programmes for pupils at risk for truancy and of the procedures used to check attendances
and to follow unexplained absences; and a review of liaison with parents and with other
agencies that have responsibilities in this matter.
(27/7/77)
Coal Imports from Australia
194. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Minister of Electricity: In view of the
statement in the National Party's full election policy that it recognises New Zealand's
increasing dependence on coal and its promise to encourage the coal industry, why does he
permit his department to consider the possibility of coal imports from Australia to fuel New
Zealand power stations when they could be fuelled from New Zealand's already proven coal
reserves?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Electricity: Because of the importance of energy to a modern economy and the alarming
forecasts for future supplies, the New Zealand Electricity Department has been investigating
the possibility of electricity generation using imported Australian coal as one of a number of
options open to this country in the longer term—that is, 15 years away. Australian coal has
not been seen as an alternative to any local coal which could be made available. Indeed, as
the Budget indicated, the Government is accelerating investigation of local coal resources,
but the use of Australian coal is seen as a possible means of deferring a nuclear power
programme should local supplies run short in future. In short, the study being undertaken
has arisen out of questions asked before the royal commission on nuclear power, and is
designed very much for the longer term.
(27/7/77)
Maruia Declaration Petition
195. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Member for Hamilton East: Is he
convinced that all the signatories of the Maruia Declaration petition were well informed of
its implications and effects, that there is no duplication of signatures, and that people have
not signed to save being pestered by petition signature seekers, and, should such be the case,
what value does he place on the size of the petition?
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) replied: It would be a formidable, if not impossible, task
to ensure that no duplication exists, but from the examination I have made I am satisfied that
if duplication exists at all it would have only a minor effect on the total number of signatures
collected. However, I can assure the member for West Coast that I believe that those who
signed the Maruia Declaration were better informed of its implications and effects than were
those who signed the former record holding petition on nuclear power. Furthermore, at least
from a personal knowledge of the situation in my own electorate of Hamilton East, I can
assure the member for West Coast that signatures were not obtained by pestering people.
Finally, as far as the value of this, New Zealand's largest ever petition, is concerned it (a)
reflects widespread and general public concern for the conservation of native forests such as
those at Okarito, and (b) because the petitioners saw fit to ask a Government back-bencher
to present it, it suggests that the Government's actions to date have met with a measure of
approval.
(27/7/77)


## p. 1869 (#325) ###########################################

3 August
1869
Questions and Replies
URGENT QUESTION
Safety of Railways in South Island
196. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Railways as an urgent
question: Has he seen a report in yesterday's Christchurch Star that railwaymen fear a serious
crash if sections of the main trunk line near Christchurch are not repaired, and will he
urgently investigate the position with a view to any necessary action being taken without
delay? Will he also arrange for a similar investigation to be made of the Rolleston-Otira
section of the West Coast line?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: First, I shall explain that I
am able to answer this question because I have seen the report in the Christchurch Star
referred to. The district engineer personally inspected the track this morning, and, while it is
agreed that there are a number of loose fastenings, this is not in itself dangerous. There is no
evidence at all of any movement of the track. All main line track, including this section, is
inspected daily, and these fastenings had already been reported upon and scheduled for
maintenance in the normal way. I am assured that the track is safe for the existing traffic
density and authorised speeds. With regard to the Rolleston-Otira section of the West Coast
line, some allegations were recently made about its safety, but it was fully inspected at the
time, and these allegations, too, were found to be unsubstantiated.
(7/7/77)
DISCUSSION OF QUESTIONS—ADJOURNMENT
[Note The questions and the replies referred to in this discussion appear on the
preceding pages, and are numbered consecutively from 1 to 196.]
Mr CHRISTIE (Napier): For the purpose of discussing Ministers' replies to questions, I
move, That the House do now adjourn. Question 80, asked by my colleague the member for
Manukau, deals with maintenance work in schools. This is a recurring problem in the
Hawke's Bay area, and I refer the Minister to a newspaper article of 16 July 1977, in which it
is reported that the Hawke's Bay Education Board had to defer $251,000 worth of work.
That area comprises 200 schools. I asked the Minister a question last Friday, which he did
not answer himself. The member who answered it made some disparaging remarks about the
Hawke's Bay Education Board and its chairman. I deeply resent those remarks, and I am
sure that other board members would too.
In his reply the Minister said: "Therefore the money spent in the maintenance area has
been increased. I am even more surprised because, in addition, in the last two financial years
the Department of Labour has financed an accelerated maintenance scheme in selected
areas, and Hawke's Bay was one of the areas selected." I have been in touch with the
secretary of the Hawke's Bay Education Board, and he told me that the board applied for
$110,000 under the accelerated maintenance scheme, and got only $37,500. That covered
only five projects in the Gisborne area. In the Napier-Hastings area, $74,000 was applied for
under the scheme, and nothing was received. In spite of this the Minister says money for
maintenance projects has been increased.
The headline in the paper the next day was "Gandar's claim rejected". That is what Mr
Bell, Secretary-Manager of the Hawke's Bay Education Board said, and when I pointed out
that the Minister had said that the board had not spent its allocation, Mr Bell said that was
not correct. It is up to the Minister to do something about this. Some schools in my area are
in a shocking state because of lack of maintenance. Recently I was called to the Tamatea
primary school after heavy rain, and you would not have put pigs on some of the ground the
kids had to play on. Applications have been made to the education board, but nothing has
been done about those grounds. The Minister says that the Hawke's Bay Education Board
did not spend its allocation for upgrading the grounds. He said: "I think it is important to
recognise, as I have commented, that the Hawke's Bay Education Board over the last 2 years
has had available to it a special scheme to get on with its deferred maintenance. I am not
critical of Mr Halford. I am simply stating the case that the board could have made a greater
effort itself to pick up on its deferred maintenance, and I wish the member would accept
that."


## p. 1870 (#326) ###########################################

1870
3 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
The secretary-manager tells me that in the last 5 years there has been only a 37 percent
increase in maintenance, and yet in the same period building and maintenance costs have
risen by 89 percent. Then the Minister had the cheek to say that the Hawke's Bay Education
Board has not spent its allocation, and that it should get off its chuff and do something about
it. The Minister should look at what is happening not only in Hawke's Bay, but over the
whole country, about school maintenance. Because we have a superannuation scheme that
the country cannot afford, money that should be available for the health and education of
our children is not there, and these services are being eroded. In the school I have just
spoken of the grounds were in a terrible state, and the children had nowhere to play.
Although the Minister says the Hawke's Bay Education Board did not spend its allocation, I
have already pointed out that it received only $37,500 of the $110,000 it asked for.
Mr N. P. H. JONES (Invercargill): I refer to question 43, which deals with the increase
in crime statistics. I take this opportunity to speak to the question because I have in front of
me the report of the Police Department, which was tabled in the House last week. It is of
concern not only to members but to everybody in the country that crime has increased.
About 6 months ago we were talking about the last Police report, and I said it would not
surprise me if the figure in the 1977 report was close to 250 000. In 1975 the number of
offences increased by 8 percent on the 1974 figure, and this year the increase is 4.15 percent.
Crimes against property have increased from 160 000 to 170 000, an increase of 9472.
Offences against the person, at an all-time record of 11 564, are slightly down on the
previous year, and one wonders where it will all end.
I draw attention to what was said by an eminent Catholic priest, Father Tom Keyes,
who for the last 20 years has been chaplain of the Invercargill borstal and for the past 15
years director of the Marysville rehabilitation centre. It is pertinent to draw attention to
three interesting articles in the weekly magazine the Tablet in which he expresses his opinion
of the police force, the booze problem, and prisons. I have come in for a few snide innuendos
and remarks about Paremoremo and other places whenever I talk about crime and offences.
Mr Courtney: Oh, come on!
Mr N. P. H. JONES: I have been listening to the snide remarks of the member for
Nelson, who has an unfortunate split personality of snideness.
Hon. F. M. Colman: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I draw your attention to the remarks
made by the honourable member about another member of the House, and I ask that you
should rule these remarks to be unparliamentary.
Mr SPEAKER: As the honourable member may have observed, I was discussing a
matter of recent occurrence that has been the subject of some attention, and about which I
want more information. If I am to rule, I really would need some guidance as to the nature of
the matter objected to.
Hon. F. M. Colman: To amplify the point of order, the member who was speaking
claimed that the member for Nelson had a split personality.
Mr Latter: I was listening carefully, and could see the member for Nelson, who was
interjecting. I think the member for Invercargill was being perfectly goodnatured about it.
The member for Nelson is a very nice fellow, and what the member for Invercargill was
saying was that sometimes the member for Nelson was not so nice because he interjected
during the member's speeches, and that is a split personality. Nothing nasty was meant. I
think it was a bit of good humour in the House.
Mr SPEAKER: When interjections are made from a position near the microphone of
the person speaking, they are potentially more than usually provocative. The remarks made,
could, in some circumstances, have been highly offensive, and would require me to insist on
a withdrawal. Not having heard the details, and knowing that the member for Invercargill
often speaks in a colourful way, I suggest it would be a nice gesture if he withdrew the
expression, and went on with his speech.
Mr N. P. H. JONES: I withdraw. I do not take any personal offence; the member for
Nelson sometimes puts things in a rather nasty way. Father Keyes believes that our prisons
encourage crime by being too easy, and people are kept in prison for far too long to no
purpose. That is the theme of what I have been trying to convey to the House. This country
has one of the highest rates of imprisonment in the world in proportion to population, and
one of the highest rates of recidivism. It is on the question of punishment or rehabilitation
that we are going wrong. I am not unmindful that just last week an honourable member
criticised the Minister of Police for saying something at the National Party conference about
magistrates being too lenient in the punishment they mete out. This Parliament should have
a good look at the type of punishment carried out in our prisons. It is much better to have a


## p. 1871 (#327) ###########################################

3 August
1871
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
short, sharp burst of punishment; and after all, that is what the prisoners are there for.
Those who should know say that people cannot be rehabilitated in prison, but they
ought to be punished for their crimes. Father Keyes said that he would sooner see 6-month
sentences reduced to 6 weeks, and 6-years' imprisonment reduced to 6 months, and people
given the punishment they merit, instead of the luxurious and more or less 3-star accommo-
dation that some of them receive now. No wonder they want to return to prison. At present
people are not being imprisoned for rehabilitation.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I want to go back to the
comments made by the member for Napier, who was the first speaker in this debate. When
the member was speaking I had difficulty in finding the question to which he was referring in
the Supplementary Order Paper. I was not able to find any reference to the subject-matter
he was using. I have now found that the question to which he addressed his remarks is one
that will be included in the Supplementary Order Paper on 17 August. It was question 10 on
29 July, asked by the honourable member of the Minister of Education. The honourable
member has addressed his remarks in the debate to a question that is not in the Supplemen-
tary Order Paper before the House.
I ask that one of two things happen. The member's contribution to the debate should be
struck out of the records of the House. That would be my preference, but if that is not
possible I suggest that the particular question should not be included in the next Supplemen-
tary Order Paper. I draw for my point of order on Standing Order 88, which asks members to
confine their comments in the debate to the questions in the Supplementary Order Paper.
Mr SPEAKER: It is the last sentence of Standing Order 88 (b).
Mr BIRCH: Yes, it states, "Discussion shall be confined to the subject-matter of any
questions or replies contained in the Supplementary Order Paper and no speech shall exceed
5 minutes in length . . ." The speech did not exceed 5 minutes, but the honourable member
spoke about a question that is not in the Supplementary Order Paper.
Mr SPEAKER: I am in some slight difficulty, because the honourable member is not in
the Chamber. I thought he referred to question 50. I wrote down "50" in my note, but I may
have misheard him.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): The rein of relevance in these debates is
traditionally applied with a fairly loose grip, and as long as a member takes as a point of
departure one of the questions on the Supplementary Order Paper before us he is
customarily allowed to stray fairly widely. I am informed by the member for Napier, who has
been called out of the House, that the question to which he opened his remarks was No. 80,
put by the member for Manukau. By way of illustration to the answer given to that question,
he referred back to an answer on a previous Supplementary Order Paper, but his point of
departure was question No. 80.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): I know that the member for Napier referred to a question in the
present Supplementary Order Paper, but his comments were about a particular school in the
Hawke's Bay Education Board's district. I referred to question 80 before I raised the point of
order, and I could see absolutely no relevance to a question addressed to the Minister of
Education by the member for Manukau asking: “Does he intend to agree to the request of
the Auckland Education Board in its 1977 report to 'review the maintenance grant annually
so as to keep abreast of inflation"?" He then went to what clearly is a question of 29 July
dealing with a particular school in the Hawke's Bay Education Board's district. That is going
well outside both the Standing Orders and the accepted practice in this debate.
Squadron Leader DRAYTON (St. Albans): I have checked with the member who
opened the debate, and am informed that he did refer to question 80. I point out that debates
on the Supplementary Order Paper have traditionally been fairly wide-ranging. I recollect,
in this my eighth year in Parliament, that quite often in the debate no reference at all is made
by members to questions in the Supplementary Order Paper.
Mr SPEAKER: The position is this. I have no power that I am aware of to delete from
Hansard what has been said. It was correctly suggested by the member raising the point that
in the words of Standing Order 88 (b): “Discussion shall be confined to the subject-matter of
any questions or replies contained in the Supplementary Order Paper . . .". Starting from
question 80, which was couched in general terms, and then relating it to a specific school is
not remote from but is probably typical of the approach of many members. It is not correct
to assume that one can talk about anything in the debate. Members must talk about
questions or answers in the very massive supply of questions and answers. As they total 196,
the debate can be enormously wide-ranging.
I should not be in order-and in fact I have no power-to delete what has been written


## p. 1872 (#328) ###########################################

1872
3 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
in Hansard. Nor am I aware of having any power, even if I thought it appropriate, to delete a
subsequent question. In the circumstances, if, according to a member, another member
appears to be speaking about something that is not the subject-matter of either a question or
an answer, then it would be quite proper at that time to raise the point when it could be
considered. However, the subsequent raising of the point places me in such a position that I
consider I can take no further action. I am glad that attention has been drawn to the point so
that honourable members can bear it in mind in future.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): It was interesting to hear the member for Invercargill trying to
assert the need to inflict physical pain on people who are in prison. Last year I remember
him telling us how the prisoners in Mt. Crawford were practising karate chops on each other.
The member for Invercargill should wake up, because his constituents could be misled into
believing that he was vitally interested in the problem. He will have to shake himself out of
his usual afternoon nap for reasons other than divisions.
I want to talk about questions 106 and 121, which deal with the sale of the ninth NAC
Boeing aircraft. Such a sale was totally unnecessary, and out of line with the country's
present transport needs. The Minister of Transport has not defended the transport system;
he has broken it down. It was wrong to sell the Boeing ZK-NAQ, especially as it was one of
the two aircraft that could land at provincial airports. It means that the member for
Palmerston North and other provincial members will not get a jet service to their areas.
The Minister has let down the air services. At this stage one does not know if the third
level air services have a chance of survival. At present they are all steadily going broke.
Capital Air Services is being propped up to give it a second run. If the Minister believes in
establishing a decent air service in New Zealand he should foster the third level services.
Questions in the House have been sidestepped with such answers as, "We will give NAC
secondhand equipment rather than the equipment it needs. That is good enough". The
National Airways Corporation deserves better than secondhand equipment. In answer to a
question about the sale of the Boeing aircraft, the Minister said that although a new
aeroplane had been sold, it would be replaced in 18 months by a secondhand aircraft. I am
sure that NAC does not want to be considered as some kind of secondhand Rose.
It is time the Minister and the Government showed some faith in the internal air
services. The Minister has failed miserably, and has sold out NAC's interests. Perhaps the
airline is being broken down so that it can be merged with Air New Zealand. There have
been murmurings that NAC could come under the wing of Air New Zealand. I do not think
that is very good at all. It would seem, as the services are getting less and less, that some
long-term plan is being followed.
I wonder how the general manager of NAC will cope with the requests from the
Minister, who will be badgered by provincial back-benchers trying to win votes and asking
why provincial air services are not reinstated. Next year the general manager of NAC will be
inundated with inquiries from the Minister who will be trying to save the seats of provincial
Government back-benchers. However, it will be too late; the rot has already set in. It is time
the Minister did something about the air services instead of allowing the same thing to
happen to them as happened to the railways. It is also time the Minister looked at his
responsibilities and shored up the South Island air services. It took 2 years before the
Christchurch City Council was allowed to spend its own money on improving the interna-
tional airport terminal.
Hon. C. C. A. McLachlan: Why doesn't the member get his facts right?
Mr KIRK: If the Minister thinks he is being misquoted or wrongly reported he should
tell us what he intends to do about the third level airline operations, and about his long-term
proposals for NAC.
Mr ALLEN (Tauranga): We have been given a treatise from the member for Sydenham,
who talked about inflicting pain on people in prison. He inflicts a lot of pain on people in this
House. He should do some research himself, rather than rely on the imagination of the
Labour research department, and use facts. New Zealand's air services are in good shape,
and NAC has no complaints. The member for Sydenham is suggesting that instead of NAC's
board running the corporation the Government should interfere. That is a Labour tactic.
The National Government would certainly not do anything like that.
The extra Boeing-which was not needed—was purchased by the Labour Government,
which wasted public money with that purchase. The aircraft has been sold overseas and
replaced by Friendships. NAC's services have been improved by the use of more Friend-
ships. The matter has not been sidestepped, as everyone in the country, including NAC and
the Government, knows. It is time the member for Sydenham better informed himself.


## p. 1873 (#329) ###########################################

3 August
1873
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
I refer to questions 35 and 62, which deal with exports and imports. Since the Labour
Government was kicked out of office the exports of dairy, meat, and wool products have
increased by some $679 million. The current account balance has improved from minus $76
million at June 1974, to minus $46 million at June 1977-not where the Government would
like to see it, but the balance is nearly twice as good as it was under the Labour Government.
The deficit is the lowest it has been in 4 years, and has been achieved despite the invisibles
the Government has had to meet because of the borrowing of the Labour Government.
Despite these invisibles, exports have improved and the deficit is down to half of what it was.
What is perhaps more important is that New Zealand is a trading nation and depends on
exporting to live. That is where the money comes from to pay people such as university
students, who want bursaries. That is where the income of the country and the Government
starts.
I wonder if the people who demonstrated outside here today really think about that.
They demand more money, but they do not think. Somebody said that it was an orderly
demonstration, but I thought it was a scruffy mob. I wonder who organised the demonstra-
tion. Some students were holding up a banner that said, "We would be better off
unemployed". They do not seem to realise that they are unemployed, and that they want the
people to pay them to be that way. They smoke, drink, and go to entertainments, and they
want us to pay for it. I do not think that is reasonable. No matter by whom they were
organised, those people should rethink the problem, and do something about it. It reminds
me a little of the demonstration at the opening of Parliament in 1976, and the very violent
demonstration in Dunedin not so long ago. There seems to be a pattern.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, a former Minister of Finance, says we should be
controlling imports by licensing control. Only 28 percent of our imports are under licensing
control, and the reason for that was made very clear by the Prime Minister yesterday when
he opened a trade fair and pointed out we are a trading nation and that, as such, the
Government believes that the fewer barriers to free competition the better. He pointed out
also that New Zealand needed imported goods in the shops, and needed imported raw
material and other components used in factories to keep industry going and to create jobs.
Another statement made by the Opposition in its efforts to make the Government appear to
be losing the battle against trading—which it is not—is that imports have increased. In fact,
last year the volume of imports decreased by 17 percent. That trend is continuing. True, we
have to pay a lot more for our imports than we did previously. Import costs increased by 26.9
percent in 1974, 30.6 percent in 1975, and 23.6 percent last year. The Government is getting
on top of the trading position, despite the increased costs of imports.
Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori): I shall not elaborate too much on what the member for
Tauranga said about imports and exports, but merely refer to the ability of the Hon. Joe
Walding and the Hon. Colin Moyle, the Minister of Overseas Trade and the Minister of
Agriculture and Fisheries respectively in the previous Labour Government. I am sure that
the National Government would recognise the tremendous work done by those two men.
I refer to question 50, which deals with regional development. I am glad that the
National Government has seen fit to support the Labour Government's regional develop-
ment policy even though it opposed that policy when it was introduced. I support wholeheart-
edly the efforts of both governments to assist regional development councils on the East
Coast, but point out to the Minister of Trade and Industry and the Minister of Regional
Development that they should not only look at industry, but should assist people to move
into the rural areas. No industry can succeed without the people to support it. The town of
Ruatoria is now recognised as the centre of the forest industry on the East Coast. The
Government should assist the establishment of industry there, and help people to settle in
the area. Without such help people are reluctant to move.
In replying to the question from the member for Napier, the Minister of Regional
Development said: "The lower level of approvals in New Zealand in 1976-77 reflects a more
cautious approach to investments by the private sector in consideration of the overall
economic situation." It is a pity that the Minister could not have elaborated on that caution
about industry. If it is because there are no people in the rural areas to start industry, the
onus is upon the Government to encourage people to move back to the rural areas. A lot of
people have converged on the urban areas, particularly Auckland, because industry is there;
and industry does not want to move away from those areas because the people are there.
Central government is the only body that can assist, and if it wants to support regional
development it should go into all the aspects-not only the establishment of viable industry,
but assistance to people to move into those areas.
11-Vol. 412


## p. 1874 (#330) ###########################################

1874
3 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East): This has been very much a ragtag debate from a ragtag
Opposition. We have had a schools debate that shouldn't—
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Now we have the bobtail.
Dr SHEARER: We had an air service debate-are you speaking, or chewing nuts? We
had an air service debate that wasn't.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! If I hear that expression used again, I will certainly require the
member using it to apologise. In the meantime I warn members that insulting references to
other members, and also allegations that they take an afternoon nap, are very risky.
Dr SHEARER: I am rather sorry that I have to follow the member for Eastern Maori. I
would have liked him to follow me, and answer one or two questions I would have put to
him, particularly about what the Labour Minister of Maori Affairs did for the East Coast-
Bay of Plenty area. I keep in fairly close contact with the area, having lived there for many
years, and I suspect that he might have some difficulty in explaining the actions of the former
Minister of Maori Affairs on development for the Maori people in that area.
I want to take up one thing that the member for Eastern Maori mentioned before I
speak to questions 35 and 62; and it relates to those questions. He mentioned a fellow who is
no longer within the Opposition ranks, a fellow generally regarded as "that fat fellow on a
bike". Opposition members frequently refer to the current account balance, and say that
things were coming right when the National Government was elected. I have a graph—and I
am sure all members have it-from the Bank of New Zealand business indicators. Anyone
with a little statistical nous knows that if you draw a straight line through the area of the 1975
graph and project it on to the surplus part of the graph, and draw a similar line through the
1976 graph and project it into surplus, you find that if we had waited around for that fat man
on a bike to accomplish anything we would have had to wait until the very end of 1978 before
we, as a nation, came into surplus in our trading accounts. However, if one looks carefully at
the existing graph—and I am sure all members opposite will go off and study the graphs
carefully-one finds that our trading account was coming into surplus at the end of 1976. I
believe that speaks volumes for the actions of that fat man on a bike, whose name, I am sure,
is remembered by some Opposition members.
The Leader of the Opposition has said a great deal about what the National Govern-
ment should have done and about what he would have done to improve the balance of trade.
He claims that we have overimported. However, when he looks at the statistics he sees only
the prices and disregards the volume of imports. We know that the prices of imported goods
have risen steeply, but let us consider the volume of imports. During the year ended March
1977 the volume of imports was 1.1 percent lower than in the previous year, but the receipts
from exports for the year ended June 1977 were 34 percent higher. Opposition members
have also claimed that we have not increased production, livestock numbers, or manufac-
tured exports. The figures I have quoted give the lie to all those claims. However, if we look
back over the years we see that our balance of payments position became steadily worse
under the former Labour Government. In 1974 the deficit was $1,126 million and in 1975 it
was $1,109 million. In 1976 the position improved considerably, and the most recent figures
show that it is improving even further. The most recent figures include invisibles, and we all
know how high they became under the Labour Government because of the amount of
interest paid on borrowed money. The invisibles grew so high that we are committed to a
large debt for many years. Nevertheless, although the trade balance in 1975 was a deficit of
$674 million, in 1977 it was a positive $42 million.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga): The member for Hamilton East used some very
distasteful terms when referring to a very capable former Minister. As a member of the 99
Club who intended to bring some decorum to the House, it ill became him to choose such
terms in debate. However, I shall leave it at that. It appears that he is happy to be a member
of a Government that is trading on the backs of Joe Walding and Colin Moyle. They were
the men who went out and captured markets for New Zealand. They established new trading
depots throughout the world, many in areas that had barely heard of New Zealand before,
and the country has capitalised on their efforts.
The member for Hamilton East also spoke about the overseas debt and its servicing. His
Prime Minister, or Minister of Finance, has been the greatest borrower of all time. Goodness
me, he comes back from overseas journeys all bent over, with his begging bowl filled to
brimming, and says he is very proud of New Zealand's credit rating. Of course, that rating
has been accorded New Zealand because of the efforts of Joe Walding and Colin Moyle
under the former Labour Government. If it had not been for their good standing those
people who now sit on the Treasury benches would not have been able to find such goodwill.


## p. 1875 (#331) ###########################################

3 August
1875
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
I asked the Minister of Works and Development when he intended implementing the
new policy that will help solve the economic problems of the National Roads Board, and in
doing so referred to the statement made a little earlier in the year by the Minister of Energy
Resources, when he said that the Government had a new policy that would solve the board's
economic problems. The Minister of Works and Development replied that the additional 1c
a litre tax on petroleum products and petrol would provide $21 million extra for the National
Roads Board. That sounds fine, but if we look at last year's figures we find that the
Government took $21 million of taxpayers' money out of the Consolidated Revenue
Account and put it into the National Roads Board fund to help prop it up.
Mr Birch: Do you quarrel with that?
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: Nobody quarrels with that, but $21 million was not enough. If we
look a little further we find that in the 1976-77 year $130.4 million was given to the National
Roads Board, and that in this financial year the amount is to be $130.7 million, including the
$21 million road tax. Last year the National Roads Board, in its annual report, warned the
Government that our roading and bridging programmes were headed for disaster. Despite
record inflation-and the roading costs index alone rose by 20 percent-only a mere
$300,000 more is being given to the National Roads Board this year than was made available
last year, and all sorts of problems are arising as a result. Last year the Government allowed
spending on State highways to fall by $2.5 million, and on road construction by nearly $6
million. That represents a drop of 14 percent in money terms and an estimated drop of 27
percent in real terms if inflation is taken into account. What does that mean to the local
scene?
We have heard a lot about the Avalon Bridge in Lower Hutt, and about how money has
been found for that. We have also heard a lot about the Wainuiomata Hill road; the member
for Petone often mentions the problem there. We have also learned that the proposed Upper
Hutt bypass is no longer considered a priority work of the No. 9B District Roads Council. To
me, that is an urgent work. Last year the people of Upper Hutt presented a petition to the
No. 9B District Roads Council-one of the largest if not the largest the council has ever
received-asking that money be made available to commence the bypass. If we cast our
minds back to the 1975 general election we can recall that the National Party paid for full-
page advertisements in the local paper, but what has come of all the promises made?
Nothing; and the No. 9B District Roads Council apparently does not now consider that the
Upper Hutt bypass should have priority. I believe it should, because the traffic on Fergusson
Drive is far greater than any urban highway should be expected to carry. Fergusson Drive is
used as an internal road, with young children riding their bicycles to and from school, and
also by huge transporters with trailer units, which rumble up and down causing a great deal
of concern to worried parents. However, the National Government refuses to do anything at
all about the problem.
Mr LAMBERT (Western Hutt): The member for Heretaunga conveniently ignored the
additional $12 million allocated to the National Roads Board last year. It is all very well for
him to talk about the need for the Upper Hutt bypass. What did he and his Government do
about it when they were in office? They did nothing at all; absolutely nothing was done. The
need for the bypass was raised by the National Party candidate at the time of the last
election, and it is all very well for the member for Heretaunga to talk about it now. The
member for Petone is in a similar position. He keeps on complaining about the state of the
Wainuiomata Hill road. Both members should have made their complaints and encouraged
action when the former Labour Government was in office, but I emphasise that at that time
they took no action at all. I am certainly glad about what has been done in my corner of the
Hutt. Priority has been given to the Avalon Bridge, which is certainly the keystone to the
rationalisation of traffic delays in the whole of the Hutt area. I take pride in saying that, as
member for the district, I have been active in doing something about it.
I now refer to questions 11 and 16, both relating to another electorate issue, public
transport. At present, Murrell's bus service has virtually gone bankrupt, and the Railways,
including its road service buses, is in a heavy loss position. The Railways' rolling stock is 30
years old and, in many cases, one can see rust holes in the coachwork of the electric units.
During the Labour Government's 3 years in office the position worsened, because transport
charges were held at an artificially low level and the department suffered heavy financial
losses. It was pleasing to see in the Budget that the present Government has positive plans
for urban transport. It is prepared to grasp the nettle and conduct an inquiry to find out the
facts. It will call together local transport authorities, the Railways, and the National Roads
Board so that the problems can be discussed and, when agreement has been reached, action
11.


## p. 1876 (#332) ###########################################

1876
3 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
can be taken, including renewal of the ageing buses in my district.
Bus companies and the Railways, with their financial liabilities, are unable to renew
their rolling stock, and it is pleasing to report that in the very near future the problems of the
Railways Department will be investigated with a view to renewal of the rolling stock,
particularly in the Wellington area. This Government and the present Minister of Transport,
unlike the previous Labour Government, are not prepared to see the problem worsen. It is
all very well for members opposite to complain about the lack of spending on roads and
bridges and commuter transport, but when they had the opportunity to do something about
it in 1972-75 they simply let things get worse.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): I was surprised to hear the member for Western Hutt
talking about the chaotic position the present Government has allowed transport to get into
during the last year or two, especially when we remember that he has been making
representations to his Government to save a private bus operator from going bankrupt and
depriving his constituents of a service. Impassioned appeals by the member for Western Hutt
have fallen on stony ground, and the private operator who made a valiant attempt to provide
that service is no longer in business. Is the member proud of his Government's record? He
endeavoured to take credit for the Avalon Bridge, but the case for that bridge was argued
and won long before the present member for Western Hutt entered this House. His
predecessor, the Hon. Henry May, can take much credit for it.
The local members of Parliament have done all they could be expected to do in their
advocacy for the Wainuiomata Hill road and the Upper Hutt bypass. If the Government had
given the National Roads Board the funds and resources those two projects would have been
under way by now. My colleague the member for Heretaunga graphically outlined the plight
of the National Roads Board and the present Government's manipulations in the funding of
that board. If the member for Western Hutt believes his advocacy was responsible for
completion of the Avalon Bridge it was clearly a case of political patronage, the last thing
any member in this House should want to claim.
I shall now speak about questions 93 and 148 dealing with immigration and assisted
passages. The migration problem highlights the failure of the present Government in
allowing a net outflow of 22 000 New Zealanders on a permanent or long-term basis, with the
position accelerating each month. Tragically, the Government shows no concern about this
development. It has a responsibility to provide conditions that make New Zealanders want
to stay here and make their contribution to this country. The teaching profession provides a
dramatic illustration of what is happening.
At present the Government is embarking on an active recruitment campaign to bring
200 teachers from the United Kingdom because there has been an outflow of no fewer than
532 teachers in the last 12 months, compared to gains of 186 and 264 in the previous years.
On the one hand we have the farcical situation of teachers finding the rewards and conditions
unattractive and seeking their fortune overseas, while on the other hand the Government
sets about actively recruiting teachers. It will cost well in excess of $1 million to pay their
fares and settle their families here.
RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North): Twelve months ago in this House members of
the Labour Government, including no doubt the member for Petone, were claiming that the
immigration policy then taking shape was their success, and it is very interesting to see the
present turn-round. One year they claim credit for this policy even though the Government
has changed. This year they say that that same policy is a terrible thing. We will just have to
compare the Hansard reports.
The member for Petone paid a very gracious tribute to the work done by the present
member for Western Hutt. To call his work "political patronage" must be the highest
accolade the member for Petone can bestow.
Question 75 and several others between numbers 21 and 50 deal with regional
development. Over the past few weeks the member for Dunedin Central has indulged in
diarrhoeic verbosity and generalised claims on regional development. He was challenged to
justify these claims; to tell us what factories have closed because of lack of regional
development assistance since National became the Government in 1975; to include them in a
notice of motion for debate. The member has ducked the opportunity.
I thank the member for Eastern Maori for acknowledging something that the member
for Dunedin Central, the Opposition spokesman on regional development, who is down in
Dunedin with a political circus, will not. He has previously acknowledged that this Govern-
ment has carried on with the Labour Party's policy on regional maintenance. That is what
the National Government said it would do and it is what it has done. We have reviewed the


## p. 1877 (#333) ###########################################

3 August
1877
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
policy as promised and as the Labour Party intended doing. The policy has been carried on
and now moves into resource-based development. I repeat: this Government came into
office committed to strengthening regional development and to carrying on the Labour
Party's policy of regional maintenance, but the election had hardly settled when the member
for Dunedin Central chose to seek revenge and to destroy even what his Government had
started.
In March 1976, less than 4 months after the election, a purely commercial decision was
taken in the member's own city to close a factory which had worn out its plant and buildings.
That firm had been in receipt of a freight subsidy. It had been offered a suspensory loan
amounting to $160,000 for regional development. It chose to use plant and buildings it had in
Christchurch rather than redevelop in Dunedin. It was a reasonable commercial decision. It
was spelt out to the member for Dunedin Central in a letter dated 10 March from the
company, AB Consolidated. It is interesting to note that the offer of the suspensory loan was
made on 11 August 1975. The member for Dunedin Central, who was the Under-Secretary
to the then Minister of Trade and Industry, would have known about it. Yet, in March 1976
when the closure came, he blamed the Prime Minister and his senior colleague for a lack of
understanding!
The member for Dunedin Central must have known the background even before it
became public. After all he had used this privileged information to cadge for party funds
from the firms receiving regional development assistance from the Labour Government. The
chairman of the Otago Regional Development Council told the member for Dunedin
Central then that he was talking a lot of rot. When it came to the recent closure of the St.
George factory in Dunedin however, the member for Dunedin Central read only part of the
letter from the Sharland group to support his claims. The House was misled for party
political reasons. Once again the Government was being blamed for the closure. The details
are given in today's Supplementary Order Paper-question 50. The member's accusation of
a lack of regional development finance has been shown to be not proven. There had been an
offer. The company was in receipt of a freight subsidy which it chose not to take up. It chose
to close. All we have had from the member for Dunedin Central are political platitudes and
no facts. The member has been long on generalities and short on facts. He should stop
destroying for purely personal vengeance something he had a hand in setting up.
Mr ROGERS (Onehunga): It is absolutely shocking to have to listen to a personal attack
on my good friend the member for Dunedin Central. We all know that the Labour
Government did more about regional development in 3 years than the previous National
Government had done in 20. The member for Dunedin Central is concerned that 70 people
will lose their jobs, but we received no sympathy from the previous speaker. Under this
Government and its silly policies there will be even more unemployment.
In his reply to question 91 the Minister of Railways freely admits that he has increased
rail freight charges four times. The question states, "We are told that removal of subsidies
and the increased Government charges are to help New Zealand's economy", but the
Government has increased railway charges four times within 20 months. On 1 February 1976
rail passenger charges were increased by 64 percent, ferry charges by 66 percent, and rail
freight charges by 30 percent. Those increases gave the Government more than $57 million.
Then on 16 June 1976 charges were increased by 25 percent, which netted the Government a
cool $30 million. On 2 January 1977 the Minister decided to have another bash at the long-
suffering public and ferry charges were increased by 42 percent, and again by 66 percent on 1
February 1977. There was another increase of 42 percent on 2 January 1977 and on 5 May
1977 freight charges were further increased to bring in $20 million to the Government.
In 20 months railway charges have been increased by $120 million. How can the
Government possibly justify those increases? Increasing charges has an effect on the amount
of freight carried and encourages road freight carriers to compete against the railways. It also
encourages overseas monopolies to compete against the railways. All the Government has
done is increase charges and cut back services, and that will only add to the financial
problems facing the railways. Under the Labour Government patronage increased by 9
percent while, under this Government, by Christmas 1976 patronage had dropped by 20
percent. I am sure that the Government will again increase freight charges in the near future.
The Government does not seem to understand that as charges increase the public is affected
in that people can only pay so much. Increased charges also affect manufacturers, yet the
Government talks about restoring the economy. Part of those increases is to pay for the
national superannuation scheme. The Government should be setting the people an example
instead of adding fuel to the inflation problem by increasing its charges. The Government


## p. 1878 (#334) ###########################################

1878
3 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
has talked about unemployment yet we all know that it has run down staff numbers in the
Railways. This is a bad Government.
Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei): The member for Roskill did not take his eyes off the
member for Onehunga. I thought he was marking him.
Railway charges were raised in a reasonable attempt to try to recoup some of the losses
that the railways had been incurring. I should like the member for Onehunga to tell us who
should continue to pick up the tab amounting to $77 million. Why should the taxpayer
continue to pick up the tab because of the exorbitant losses being suffered by the Railways
Department?
The Labour Government's regional development scheme, which was alluded to by the
member for Onehunga, treated the symptoms but did not attack the real ailments. It failed
to reconcile regional and national policies. The Holmes task force has identified a number of
major weaknesses in current policies. The new planning council is meeting regional
development councils and regional planning authorities to discuss the future of those bodies.
The Government has stressed the need to implement a resource-based policy, and resource
surveys are now being prepared.
My comments refer to questions 21, 22, 31, 32, and a number of others. The regional
development assistance given in the last year to priority areas was very reasonable compared
with the projects put forward. The Government cannot prop up artificially industries or
regions where growth is not developing naturally from local resources. Firms often visit
Northland to examine the possibility of setting up business, but they return home convinced
that, although there are a lot of advantages, their major market is in a city such as Auckland,
and that they should stay close to the market because of transport and freight costs. That is a
realistic and sensible business decision, and they should not be expected to set up business in
Northland under those circumstances.
Several attractive plans for regional development have been provided in the Budget.
One is the relaxation of the "once only" rule. Industries will be able to develop in planned
stages, and an industry will be able to start in a small way and receive regional development
assistance. As it grows it will be able to receive further assistance. Another provision of great
interest to me was the relaxation of restrictions on qualification for suspensory loans. I
congratulate the Minister and the Government for this relaxation, and for restoring
Whangarei to the top priority bracket of 30 percent. The allowance has also been increased
for New Plymouth, Wanganui excluding Wanganui City, and Taranaki excluding New
Plymouth.
The pioneer status incentive scheme is also very good, and the Northland Regional
Development Council will shortly be writing to the Minister making suggestions for pioneer
status in the processing of renewable resources and other manufacturing and processing
activities. Great potential exists in forestry and fishing, and pioneer status will assist these
industries considerably. Regional development assistance has also been given by way of the
40 percent suspensory loan for fishing and the blackberry subsidy.
Many Budget provisions appear to have no relevance to regional development, but in
practice they are of great benefit to priority regional development areas. Community
colleges fall into this category. The new policies stress the Government's belief that action
should avoid handouts, and should not artificially prop up activities. Short-term solutions,
which are not in the national interest, are not wanted. We need a long-term co-ordinated
plan for the development of the country as a whole, but which also takes into account the
needs of priority regions. Regional maintenance, which was the Labour Government's
policy, is one thing-but genuine resource-based development is another, and that is the
policy the Government will pursue.
The time allowed for the discussion of questions and replies having expired, the motion
lapsed.
LEAKAGE OF BUDGET TAXING PROPOSALS
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): On behalf of the committee set up to
inquire into the alleged Budget leak, I report as follows: The committee was appointed to
consider and report upon the allegation of a serious leak in Budget taxing proposals, which
was made by the member for Auckland Central in a notice of motion on 22 July, the text of
which is: "That this House notes with very great concern that the Dominion newspaper on
the morning of the Budget in its front page story correctly predicted that the tax on cigarettes
and liquor would be increased in the Budget, and notes that the Dominion stated that the


## p. 1879 (#335) ###########################################

3 August
1879
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
story was revealed by political sources, and that this House concludes that it appears that
there has been a serious leak of Budget taxing proposals, and the House calls upon the
Government to explain this leak from the Budget, and to hold an inquiry to discover who
leaked the Budget information and whether any persons have benefited from the premature
disclosure of Budget secrets." The committee has examined the authors of the article.
Claiming a convention of privilege under the code of ethics of professional journalists, they
refused to divulge the source of the material complained of. It is a matter for regret that the
effect of this refusal may be to leave some suspicion on wide groups of individuals. The
committee can see no prospect of eliciting further information in regard to the source of the
material, and accordingly recommends that no further action be taken. I move, That the
report do lie upon the table and be adopted and agreed to.
It may help honourable members if I quote an extract from the minutes, particularly the
answer to the first two questions asked of the authors, and a statement they made to the
committee after being advised by counsel. To the first question, Mr Neville said that while
the article in question was written jointly by himself and Mr Long, he had written the
sentence, "Political sources revealed last night that Parliament will take urgency to pass a
special Customs Bill increasing the Government's bite on tobacco and alcoholic products."
The words "political sources" were used by the news media in a wide sense to mean any
person in the political, parliamentary, and Government sphere, including departments. The
second question asked whether the information in this sentence came from a Cabinet
member, a member of Parliament, or another source, or whether it was an inspired guess.
Upon Mr Neville's indication that he was unable to answer this question because of
journalistic ethics, the witnesses were invited to withdraw to consider their reply.
The minutes then report that, after some consultation with the Clerk of the House, the
witnesses returned and Mr Neville read the following statement: "There had been wide-
spread public discussion, including public statements by members of Parliament, as to a tax
on tobacco and alcohol. There had been no denial by any Government spokesman that it
would be in the Budget. As experienced journalists, it was decided that it was in order in the
circumstances to publish the information regarding a special Customs Bill. It was not an
inspired guess, but as a matter of professional integrity I am not willing to identify the class
of political source from which the information came." That paragraph then ends with Mr
Neville thinking, on recollection, that confirmation of both the Bill and urgency had been
given to him.
The authors of the article claimed professional privilege, and it is of interest, although
not exactly analogous, that a recent report of the Torts and General Law Reform Committee
comments upon the question of journalists' statutory privilege in the courts. Parliament does
not necessarily follow that absolutely, but the report gives these reasons for believing that
journalists should not be granted special privilege. I quote from page 70 of the report: "The
enactment of a privilege could create its own problems as it would protect bad as well as
good journalism. It is not unknown for an irresponsible journalist to interview his typewri-
ter, and publish a fictitious story ascribed to a fictitious source. While the journalist has the
ability to inform the public, he also has the ability to mislead. The accuracy of the
information and the validity of comment must be open to public scrutiny, otherwise the very
purpose of supplying information to the public-to inform it and enable it to act
responsibly-may be frustrated." The report continues at page 71: "The negative effects of a
journalist's privilege on legal proceedings should also be emphasised. The most likely civil
proceedings in which disclosure of journalists' confidences would be an issue are libel suits.
The operation of a privilege in such proceedings would be totally unmeritorious. A person
defamed by untruths should have a legal remedy, and that remedy should not be frustrated
by a defendant able to plead defences such as qualified privilege and fair comment, and at
the same time plead confidentiality in respect of his sources of information."
The authors of this report have claimed that sort of privilege. The press report is an
allegation of a breach, and that only. Whether one believes it must depend on the individual
reader's judgment as to the credibility of its authors. In my own view their refusal to assist in
a proper investigation of their serious charges not only leaves a slur upon a great many loyal
public servants, members of the Executive, and officers of the House, but also undermines
completely their credibility.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I take up first the proceedings of the committee,
and report to the House that the member for New Lynn, who is currently absent, but will, I
hope, be back before the debate terminates, moved that the proceedings, short of delibera-
tion, be open to the press. That was an important motion and should have been agreed to.


## p. 1880 (#336) ###########################################

1880
3 August
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
This was an important topic, and while it may be said that in this matter the press perhaps
concentrates public attention as well as expressing it the matter has aroused, and will no
doubt continue to excite, throughout this debate, a good deal of public comment. That
motion was lost on a majority vote. The member for New Lynn also moved that I take the
chair, the reason being that the real concern of the committee was not what was said by the
journalists, but what was said to them. The journalists concerned were not on trial; there was
never any suggestion of that. There was no impropriety on their part whatsoever in
publishing the revelations made to them. Any blame must lie on the person or persons
making the disclosures to them.
Hon. T. F. Gill: How about the person who made the allegation?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: The person who made the allegations is pointing to the person
who made disclosures, and as I will show the House, disclosures were made. Those
disclosures, as I will tell the House, were shown to have come from a source that could only
be a Government or Government-controlled source. That again was decided by a majority,
both the nominees for the chairman abstaining on this occasion.
I turn now to the question of journalistic privilege, to which the Minister has been
referring. There is no such thing before a court of law, and a journalist can be compelled to
answer questions about how information published by him came into his possession when
directed to do so by the judge. Whether that applies without qualification to a person
appearing voluntarily before a parliamentary committee, I am not prepared to say. Person-
ally I think the matter is not beyond doubt. But even in a court of law it is not a requirement
to be enforced rigidly, but should be tempered with discretion. That is to be derived from the
leading case of the Attorney-General v. Mulholland and Foster, which developed out of the
Vassal Admiralty inquiry. In that case the case for journalistic privilege was summarised in
counsels' argument and cited in our own law reform committee report, which the Minister
has referred to. The report states: "1. A journalist has an obligation towards his suppliers of
information and it would be dishonourable for him to reveal them. 2. A journalist owes a
duty to his employers not to imperil their receipt of information in the future, which would
clearly appear if an informer knew that the reporter would break his confidence. 3. A
journalist has a self-interest in the matter because he would be out of business if it were
known that he revealed confidential information. 4. The law will not force a man to disclose
his trade secrets. 5. Journalists have a conscientious objection for revealing secrets of
information, which is part of the ethics of their profession. A person should not be asked to
commit a breach of professional ethics."
It should be added that the case was made that the police are not required to disclose the
sources of their information, and without protection from disclosure many sources of
information would cease to be available. The same report quotes from the judgment of Lord
Denning in that case, and it is set out in the Law Reform Committee's report. I personally
prefer what was said by Lord Donovan, and I should like to cite that. "I add a few words
only about the need for some residual discretion in the court trial in a case where a journalist
is asked in the course of the trial for the source of information. While the journalist has no
privilege entitling him as of right to refuse to disclose the source, so I think the interrogator
has no absolute right to require such disclosure. In the first place the question has to be
relevant to be admissible at all. In the second case it ought to be one, the answer to which
will serve a useful purpose in relation to the proceedings in hand. I prefer that expression to
the term necessary. Both these matters are for the consideration and if need be the decision
of the judge. And over and above these two requirements there may be other considerations
impossible to define in advance, but arising out of the infinite variety of fact and circum-
stances which a court encounters, and which may lead a judge to conclude that more harm
than good would result from compelling the disclosure or punishing a refusal to answer."
The committee in New Zealand concluded that it was desirable that this discretion be
clarified and defined.
I turn from what was in fact written by the journalists concerned to the more important
question of what may have been said to them. I have been driven to the inescapable
conclusion that something was said, or perhaps done, by a knowledgeable political
party-and I call it that-which should not have been said or done. Much of political
journalism consists of putting two and two together; sometimes the answer adds up to the
right figure, sometimes it comes out wrong. In the article with which we were concerned it is
a fact that there was more wrong than right, but one correct answer was stated with such
confidence that it aroused suspicion, and that confidence was confirmed before the commit-
tee. I want to repeat some of the matter that was given in evidence-not all, because the


## p. 1881 (#337) ###########################################

3 August
1881
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
Minister has cited some of it—but I quote from the written statement given by Mr Neville
after he took legal advice. Speaking of the revelation he went on to say, "It was not an
inspired guess, but as a matter of professional integrity I am not willing to identify the class
of political source from which the information came." From recollection Mr Neville thought
the confirmation of both the Bill and urgency was given to him. Later he said, "The
possibility of urgency being taken on Budget night was the subject of a specific question put
to certain people on Wednesday morning." Later Mr Neville confirmed that he had asked
political sources the question, "Would urgency be taken on Budget night to pass a customs
measure?"
The question of urgency, of course, is crucial, because once a journalist knows that
urgency is to be taken, and particularly when there has been public speculation about
customs measures, he is aware that there will be some change in the incidence and probably
the rate of customs duty. That is the crucial question. It is hard to avoid the conclusion that
on that point someone made a direct and explicit statement to the journalist concerned. For
the rest it may have been no more than a nod or a wink; and one has the wisdom of proverbs
to know that one is as good as the other. But even that is a breach of trust and
confidentiality, which in other times and in other places has been roundly condemned and
visited with dire consequences.
I concurred in the committee's report after some alterations had been made, at my
suggestion, and while in its own terms it absolves Parliament from any further action, it
certainly does not exculpate the Government or dispose of its responsibility. In a word, the
consequence of the report is that the journalists concerned were explicit that questions had
been put to people in political circles who were knowledgeable, and they confirmed a
view-perhaps one that they had already formed from the questioning and follow-up studies
they had done. There was a direct confirmation, which enabled them to state with the
confidence that would otherwise have been untenable a matter which directly relates to a
taxing proposal of the Government, and which came from a breach of confidentiality. There
was, in terms of the motion the committee was originally invited to discuss, a leak from
Government or Government-controlled sources, for which the Government must take
responsibility.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I sense from the remarks of the member
for Henderson what I sensed at the committee-that the two Labour members were
disposed to make this a political issue. The last 5 minutes of the member's speech make that
abundantly clear. I sensed that from the point at which the member for New Lynn moved
that the member for Henderson take the chair, regardless of the fact that the incident arose
from a very extravagant notice of motion moved by one of his colleagues in the Opposition.
He tried to support that motion in a totally untenable manner. It was a Labour Party notice
of motion that caused the committee to be set up. He then moved that the proceedings be
open to the press, and again I sensed, and said so, that he was playing politics, because I
know the member for New Lynn very well-as we all do. He never fails to play politics in
matters of this kind. He did not think to so move when the committee was set up, and I am
sure he was kicking himself because he had not done so. It is the House that decides whether
a committee shall be open to the press, and if a committee had wished to be open to the press
it would have needed the approval of the House. The time to obtain the approval was when
the committee was set up, and so I sensed right at the beginning that the member for New
Lynn in particular, and to a lesser degree the member for Henderson, were disposed to play
politics. I assure the House that I was not.
As Minister of Finance, I was disturbed when I read the report in the Dominion before
the member for Auckland Central gave notice of his motion. I looked at the report very
carefully indeed, and finally came to the conclusion that it was a style of journalism rather
than a simple statement of fact, because a particular portion read: "Political sources revealed
last night that Parliament will take urgency to pass a special Customs Bill increasing the
Government's bite on tobacco and alcoholic products." That is rather a mixed metaphor, but
nevertheless that is what the report said.
I read further, where various positive statements were made: "More novel announce-
ments will involve subsidies for maraes." They were so novel that they did not appear,
but
there was a firm statement. Further down I read: “House hunters are likely to be
disappointed"—not quite so positive. "The sources said Budget housing announcements
would be limited to unfulfilled National Party election manifesto promises." That was the
point at which I said, "Well, I need not worry too much about any of my Ministers", because
all of my Ministers, the only political people who knew what was in the Budget, knew that


## p. 1882 (#338) ###########################################

1882
3 August
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
表
​that was not correct. There is not much point in leaking material if you leak incorrect
material. That gets you no points from anybody.
At that point I was satisfied that I had little to be concerned about in a leak from the
Cabinet, which is the important leak in an issue like this. We questioned Mr Neville, and he
said there was a convention, and he proposed to adhere to it. The two speakers who
preceded me spoke about that convention. I am sure it has no validity when it comes to the
kind of proceedings with which we are concerned in a select committee of Parliament, but be
that as it may, I am not concerned with the politics of the matter but with the truth of it. I
said to the committee, and I repeat it in public, that if any Minister of the Crown revealed
the contents of the Budget he would be required to resign forthwith. I am satisfied that no
Minister did reveal the contents of the Budget. It would be equally serious if any public
servant revealed the contents, or part of the contents, of the Budget. That is where the
difficulty lies, because Mr Neville, in defining political sources, was very careful to say that
he meant politicians, employees in Parliament Buildings, and public servants.
I questioned him at some length, because in my view if employees in Parliament
Buildings could be described as borderline political sources—and I do not really think they
could be public servants outside Parliament Buildings could not. But he insisted, and
repeated it, and I came back to it later in cross-examination, and he repeated again that he
included public servants. My worry is that in leaving the matter as we did—and he would say
no more—we cast some doubt on everyone, including the public servants who had any
knowledge of these affairs. In my view that is not fair. I asked him if he would exempt one or
more classes, and he was not prepared to do that. I think he was wrong. He could have
exempted, shall we say, the Cabinet, the employees of Parliament Buildings, or public
servants outside Parliament Buildings. At least that would have drawn the implied misde-
meanour away from those groups. He chose not to do so, and I do not think we can get any
closer to the matter than that.
There is obviously no way in which the source can be revealed. I doubt if very much
damage has been done in this instance, because I had publicly stated some time earlier that
we were considering an increase in tax on tobacco and alcoholic products. I did not call it a
bite. I said we were considering the increase, so I am sure many people on Budget day
bought an extra packet of cigarettes or an extra bottle of whisky. In fact, I recall one member
of the House, long since retired, who bought a case of whisky every Budget day. He said,
"Sooner or later I am bound to be right." That was Geoff Sim, and he was right from time to
time. I do not think we can go any further with this, although I am bound to say that when
the member for Henderson said that someone who knew that urgency was to be taken would
know it meant customs duty-it meant customs duty or sales tax-it need not have been on
tobacco or alcohol. It was a fair guess, having regard to what had gone before, that it would
be those two items.
But it could have meant other things, and that unfortunately is where the staff of the
Legislative Department comes in. I am very sorry about that, because, as members know, if
we are to have resolutions after the reading of the Budget we have to get from the Legislative
Department a drill sheet that enables us to go into that form of procedure. I have been
assured by the Clerk of the House, Mr Littlejohn, that he has spoken to each member of his
staff who was in any way involved, and that none of them gave any information whatsoever
on the matter. But it would need only someone to say that urgency was to be taken for an
immediate jump to the conclusion that tobacco and alcoholic products were involved. I do
not think it came there. I am of the opinion that it was inspired guesswork. Indeed, I recall
that the journalist said that political sources would include the press gallery. I cannot follow
that definition, and I cannot understand how the Press Gallery could have the information
anyway.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): The Prime Minister in his
opening comments said that Opposition members of the special select committee tried to
make a political issue out of this question. It is a political issue. I cannot imagine anything
being more political than an allegation, which now seems to have substantive support, that
there was a Budget leak. Indeed, it is a matter of very grave responsibility, and in particular
the grave responsibility of the Prime Minister, who also acts as Minister of Finance. The
notice of motion given by the Opposition was not the cause of the committee being set up.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Oh yes, it was.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The Prime Minister knows that.


## p. 1883 (#339) ###########################################

3 August
1883
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Oh yes, it was.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The allegation of a leak from the Budget was the cause of a
committee being set up. The Prime Minister himself decided that, come what may, he would
have a select committee. He knows the conversation that took place between us, and that is
where that particular conversation rests.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: As a result of the allegation made.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: In his speech, the Prime Minister also claimed that the
resolution moved by Opposition members of the committee, and rejected by the Govern-
ment majority, that the press should be invited to the committee's hearings, was a political
move. He knows that is not so, and knows that in fact the committee received from the
newspaper most concerned a specific request in writing that the committee's hearings be
open to the press. I should have thought that the Prime Minister would at least have been
fair on that particular matter. It seems that one or two facts emerge that are not open to
doubt. I suggest that the first of these is the integrity of the journalists involved. They could
have quite easily gone for shelter, and said, "Look, this is an inspired guess."
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: They did.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: They did not do that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Oh yes, they did.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: They could have said, "This is an inspired guess", and that
would have been the end of the matter. My understanding is that they did not.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: But that's what they said.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: That was far from the circumstances. Indeed, the
journalists before the committee very properly sought the shelter of journalistic privilege, so
as not to disclose their source. If it was an inspired guess, there was no source. It was not an
inspired guess, and clearly there was a source. I want to assert that the integrity of the
journalists in this case is beyond question, as is the fact that there was a leak of Budget
information.
Hon. David Thomson: It's a conviction upon allegation.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: That's what he would like to believe.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: And it came from political sources. Within the Budget
there were references to customs measures. Many members of the House know how a
Budget is put together, and they know that a number of Ministers are involved, according to
the departmental involvement in the Budget. It is a pretty sad business when Ministers and
others come under suspicion because of the circumstances that now prevail. It is perfectly
true that some kites were flown before the Budget. The Prime Minister said that he himself
flew some. The Minister of Health certainly flew some on the possibility of a tax on beer. I
draw attention to the specific comment by Mr Neville, when giving evidence before the
committee, that it was "not an inspired guess". If it was not an inspired guess—
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Maybe it was a guess.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The journalists were acting on information, and it is all
very well for the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice to try to put them down. That is
not where the responsibility lies. The responsibility lies with the Government, and more
specifically with the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister, and does not end, I suggest,
with the report of a select committee to the House. The Prime Minister said this afternoon,
"I am concerned with the truth of it."
it.
Hon. David Thomson: The Leader of the Opposition is concerned with the conviction of
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: He is making that very obvious.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: And so are others. I suggest to the Prime Minister that the
matter should not rest simply because this committee has reported back. It is not good
enough for the Minister of Justice and the Prime Minister to blame the journalists because
they have properly carried out their responsibility as journalists.
Hon. David Thomson: Nonsense!
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The member for Henderson indicated previous rulings in
this area, and talked about journalists' responsibilities to their profession, their employers,
and themselves. I suggest that these journalists have done no more than that. As I said to the
House earlier, it would have been simple for them to say, "Look, it was an inspired guess",
and that would have been the end of the matter. They chose not to, because the truth of the
matter, as indicated in the exact words of a principal witness, was that it was not an inspired
guess. I put it to the Prime Minister again that he has a responsibility to take the matter
further. No one knows better than he that it is not good enough to let the matter rest because


## p. 1884 (#340) ###########################################

1884
3 August
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals
a witness decides that he will not disclose the source of his information. I suggest the Prime
Minister turn his attention elsewhere.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: And ask someone if he did?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: And see if he can find out just a little bit more about where
this possible leak might have occurred. Or is he about to give it up at this stage?
Rt Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Ask someone if they leaked it, for example?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: He was quick enough this afternoon to attack journalists
for not disclosing, but the same Prime Minister in a judicial inquiry refused to disclose his
witness or his source of evidence, and did not mind involving a lot of other people who would
be smeared to some degree by his non-disclosure.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: That's exactly what is happening.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: But he was quick enough to point the finger this afternoon,
although he himself sheltered behind a much more tenuous claim of privilege. I want to
come back again to this question of a leak. I think the Prime Minister should make it
perfectly clear to the House that he is not prepared to simply let the matter rest there.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I should ask all the public servants who have been smeared?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: The first thing the Prime Minister should do is ensure a lot
more security within his department and perhaps the second thing he should do is ensure
that, when a Budget is being put together, he is in the country to supervise it.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Every time the mouse squeaks, he gets on to that.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: Well, we know that when the Prime Minister is in a little bit
of difficulty he resorts to personalities, whether he is making a speech or sitting in his seat.
The fact is that for the first time in many, many years there has clearly been a Budget leak.
The leak has occurred during the term of the present Prime Minister as Minister of Finance,
in a Budget that was largely put together in his absence.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: It was not.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: It was largely put together in the absence of the Prime
Minister.
Debate interrupted.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr BELL (Gisborne): When the House adjourned last evening, I was answering the
challenge of the member for Christchurch Central that the Government was avoiding a
debate on agriculture. I had covered the stock incentive scheme improvements, and was
dealing with the positive assistance provided in the Budget for first farm purchases. The 1975
manifesto promised taxation concessions to farm vendors who left not less than half the
purchase price of the land on mortgage, and this has been implemented in the 1977 Budget.
It is an effective way of encouraging more private investment in farming, to the benefit of the
industry as a whole, and certainly to the retired farmer.
The increased noxious weeds eradication subsidy will be welcomed by farmers in my
Gisborne electorate. The estimates show a reduction from the $10 million spent in 1976-77,
to $8.7 million in 1977-78. However, it should be noted that in 1975 the last Labour
Government closed off its ill-founded weed control scheme at only $2 million, making it
necessary for the National Government to find at least $4.5 million-
Mr Minogue: How much?
Mr BELL: The amount needed in 1976-77 to finance the remainder of the Labour
Government's scheme was $4.5 million, which has meant that the actual effective expendi-
ture on weed control in 1976-77 was not the $10 million shown in the estimates, but $5.5
million.
Mr Minogue: How much?
Mr BELL: I said $5.5 million.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member is being given far too much assistance from those in
his immediate surroundings.
Mr BELL: What I have just said puts the $8.7 million in the current year's estimates in
the true perspective, and shows an increase of more than $3 million, which will adequately
cover the eradication of the extra weeds added to the schedule.
Farmers within commuting distance of townships will be pleased at the provision in the
Budget for rural employee housing in such townships. I am sure that employees will welcome


## p. 1885 (#341) ###########################################

3 August
1885
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
this as an opportunity to live in an urban area with the educational and social advantages
normally found in such areas. It indicates that the imaginative National Government is
aware of the problems facing many farmers in keeping their farm employees. This housing
provision can be allied to home ownership inclusion in the Budget for all persons living in
accommodation provided by their employers. Applicants for house purchases, or the
building of new houses, should generally be in the first home-seeker category, be at least 45
years of age, and within 10 years of retiring. An important point is that there will be no
residential requirement attached to such loans, which, together with interest rates, will be in
line with the standard Housing Corporation policies. Rentals must also be approved by the
Corporation. Forestry and electricity workers, and particularly farm employees, will
welcome this new policy as recognition of the problems they face in living in employer
housing. If such houses are available for renting, they will help satisfy the housing shortage.
Further evidence of the recognition of rural problems is highlighted in the Budget under
the heading of education. The public will be aware that the Government intends to provide
mobile pre-school units in rural areas. The people living in those areas can thank the
member for Pahiatua for including the suggestion in his maiden speech. The school boarding
bursaries are to be increased to $500 a year, and $10 a term travel assistance will be paid to
parents whose children are forced to live away from home to complete their schooling.
Farmers in the remote areas, whose transport costs are increasing, are pleased at the
fertiliser freight subsidy re-adjustment.
Mr Bruce Barclay: How much?
Mr BELL: The freight costs to many farmers in my electorate will be reduced by about
$2 a tonne.
Some weeks ago I received a letter from a young married farm employee, who is typical
of many people in this category, complaining that although his wages had increased from
$110 to $120 a week, his tax had increased by $5.48, leaving $4.52 as his share of the $10
increase. I explained to him that this sort of distortion occurs when an income limit is
imposed, but that it was possible that such anomalies could be rectified in the Budget. As my
prediction proved to be accurate, I think this man's case is worth outlining. Before the 1977
Budget, his weekly taxation on his $120 gross wage was $21.70, or 18 percent. However,
from 1 October 1977, and backdated to 1 April 1977, his taxation will be $9.23 a week, or 7.7
percent of his salary. His take home pay will increase by $12.47. In October 1972, taxation
for the average wage earner amounted to 15 percent. Members opposite talk at great length
about taxation, but in October 1975, under the Labour Government, the same average wage
earner paid 18 percent of his salary in taxation. In October 1976, under the National
Government, the young single income family wage earner was paying 16.3 percent. Today,
such wage earners-and there would be many thousands throughout the country-are
paying 7.7 percent of their gross wage in taxation.
I have already mentioned the inflation-proof savings scheme, which will be another aid
to the farm or home seeker, as well as to the retired couple. Everyone who has a modest nest
egg, and has seen its spending power dwindle because of inflation, will now have full
inflation protection, tax free, on savings, plus a small interest return. It is obvious that the
Government is looking after the modest savers in our community, who it considers are
valued persons who should be encouraged in their savings.
I was hoping to have time to cover another important industry, the fishing industry,
which is of interest to people in my electorate. However, I am sure the subject will be
covered by other Government members, because it was one of the most imaginative parts of
the Budget. I have had comments from people from many walks of life in my electorate, to
the effect that while they are well aware of the problems faced by the Government, which
said it could not straighten out the mess it had inherited in less than 3 years, they considered
the Budget forward-looking and imaginative, and indicative of the true direction to be taken
in the years ahead.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): We have just heard another doleful dirge from a
Government member who could not use the full time allocated to him to speak about the
Budget introduced by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance. Members opposite have
already ceased talking about the Budget. I have been following the debate, and it has been
noticeable that those members opposite who represent marginal seats have been blatantly
electioneering and not concentrating on the Budget, which fails to come to terms with any of
the country's major economic problems. Members opposite know it, and that is why they are
so quick to avoid the issue and seek refuge, in some cases, in minor electorate matters.
The Budget failed to come to terms with any of the major economic problems. As the


## p. 1886 (#342) ###########################################

1886
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Leader of the Opposition pointed out when he commenced the debate from this side of the
House, the Government has made no real attempt to deal with inflation. Efforts to control
prices have resulted in abject failure, and there is nothing in the Budget to show that the
Government intends to do anything about the problems experienced by New Zealand
families. Despite special and relief work schemes, the level of unemployment is much too
high. That represents another failure on the part of the Government, which promised to deal
with unemployment. Loan finance provisions in the Budget fall far short of our housing
requirements, despite the fact that 22 000 more people have left New Zealand because jobs
and homes are more easily obtained overseas, and because rates of pay for skilled workers
are much more attractive, particularly in Australia. The Minister of Immigration would
know something about that. Overseas borrowing has accelerated beyond the level that the
National Party criticised when the Labour Party was in office. The Government has passed
the half-way mark of its term of office, but there is nothing in the Budget that shows any
positive plans to overcome its deficiencies in any of the areas I have mentioned. The
inclusion of the transport and energy packages in the Budget is a cunning subterfuge to
attempt to conceal how little the Government intends to do in the matter of financial
management.
Mr Wellington: What about transport?
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: Let the member for Manurewa be patient. I shall deal with
him, and with transport, all in good time. There have been vicious increases in postal
charges, for instance, and on beer, spirits and cigarettes. The simple pleasures of the
working man have been attacked ruthlessly, to a much greater extent than was anticipated
when the Budget was delivered by the Minister of Finance. Those increases came out in
subsequent statements from the Ministers concerned. The postal charges have been dealt
with very adequately by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition. The review contained in the
Budget was padded with extra packages, the contents of which need not have waited for the
Budget and I refer to the energy and transport packages. The associated financial adjust-
ments in those packages are, in many cases, consequent on decisions-such as the decision
on the 40-mile limit-which should have been made public long ago. They did not have to
wait for the Budget. The decisions were made some time ago, and could have been made
public much earlier.
Hon. C. C. A. McLachlan: That is not correct.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: Deferring those announcements until the Budget was a
time-wasting exercise, which gave the Minister of Finance some padding for a Budget that
otherwise had little substance. It is a timid, bits and pieces Budget, which contains little joy
for anyone. The single income families with children under 5 years of age, or even under 10
years of age, have had their economic position restored only to what it was at about the end
of 1976. We have heard a lot of talk about the need to increase production and to increase
our export income. It has been empty talk. Where is the real incentive, and the taxation
restructuring that is absolutely necessary? Society is encouraged to work a 4-day week,
because of the existing taxation structure. The Government should have come to terms with
that truth in the Budget, but it failed to do so. We have to ensure that everyone who is
willing to work longer hours should have something to show for it. People with the enterprise
to work outside their normal employment should not be discouraged. We must have an
expansion-orientated economy. We have no inkling of the Government's priorities in
coming to grips with this burning problem. We must underline more forcefully the need for
more incentives at all levels; work must be rewarded. Where is the incentive in the Budget to
work harder, or to increase production? There is an incentive to increase speculation, but
that is one that I am not greatly concerned about. But the people who do the actual work
must have an incentive and must get more in their pay packets at the end of the week, or they
will not be encouraged to produce. Men and women need an incentive to do as much work as
they can, as well as they can. It is time this complacent Government came to terms with the
problem. Work must be rewarded at all levels, and speculation must be discouraged. This
can only be achieved by an appropriate scheme to generate production.
Thinking members opposite—and there are some, although, to my great sorrow, they
are in the minority-must know that what I am saying is absolutely correct. On television,
immediately after delivering the Budget, the Minister of Finance when questioned on the
subject, said: "We have to sacrifice something, so we sacrificed growth." The one thing he
should not have sacrified went overboard. The tables on page 48 of the Budget show that
provision is made for an increased tax take from people of $910 million-$163 million by
indirect taxation and $730 million by direct taxation on top of the $250 million taken by


## p. 1887 (#343) ###########################################

3 August
1887
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
mistake last financial year. The Government should concentrate on leaving more money in
the people's pockets, to encourage them to produce more, or to encourage them to invest in
industry to provide employment, production, and overseas earnings. That is the core of our
problem, and I am certain that the Minister of Overseas Trade knows it.
He does not disagree with one word I am saying, because he accepts that I am giving a
totally correct summation of the priorities the Government should be accepting, as the
people elected to govern the country. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, was
reported in Asia Week on 7 January 1977 as saying, "What I am doing at the moment
literally is endeavouring to reduce the standard of living of the people." What an abject
admission of failure. Any doubts anyone may have had about that being his real intention
would have been dispelled on the night of 21 July when, after reading the Budget, he asked,
"Where do we go from here?" The people were looking for incentives and encouragement.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: What would the honourable member have put into his Budget?
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: We would have implemented the type of policy I am
outlining right now. Indeed, that is the type of Budget the people can expect from the
incoming Labour Government. The 1979 Budget will give production incentives and hope
for the people, rather than discouragement.
I turn now to transport, and say straight away that I am not totally opposed to the
extension of the 40-mile limit for road transport haulage-or perhaps I should say the
proposal to extend the limit from 64 km to 150 km. Having advocated that the Minister
should have acted sooner, I am sure he is not surprised to hear me say that I am not totally
opposed to the extension. However, I have some reservations about the proposal, and shall
tell the Minister and the Government of my reasons for them. I do not make statements
unless I have a reason for doing so, and I believe the Minister will accept that assurance.
First, the extension from 64 km to 150 km should have been phased in over a 2-or 3-year
period, for several reasons. For example—and let us go back to miles-it should have been
extended from 40 miles to 60 miles, then to 80 miles, and then to 93.5 miles; or,
alternatively, if it was found more desirable to extend it in two steps, it could have been
increased from 40 to 70 miles and then to 93.5 miles. Talking in kilometres again, it could
have been increased from 64 to 100 km, and then 12 months later to 150 km; or, if an
additional phase was thought desirable, it could have been increased from 64 km to 95 km,
then to 120 km, and later to 150 km. I am not arguing about the proposal to extend the
distance, but about the manner in which it is to be applied.
I am sure the Minister of Transport is aware that at the time the former Labour
Government left office it was on the verge of implementing a similar proposal, which would
have been phased in rather than taken in one jump. The Minister of Transport has no doubt
been informed of that proposal by the very good officials in his department. That would have
given the Railways Department a chance to adjust and compete with road transport. That is
very, very important.
Government members talk about the importance of the railways system. Recently the
Minister said that in his view there is no alternative to a railway system for long haulage, and
that it is the most economic means of internal transport. I entirely agree with him. The only
possible alternative would be coastal shipping, and for the life of me I fail to see why we have
not yet been able to institute a competitive coastal shipping system. I hope that will be done
in the not too distant future. As an island country, surely to goodness we should have the
wit, the intelligence, and the wherewithal to establish a coastal shipping system that can
compete with road and rail on a long-haul basis. It is an absolute must.
I have another reason for stating my reservations about the move from 64 km to 150 km
in one jump. Indeed, I know that some members of Cabinet had reservations about the
proposal, and wanted it phased in over a period of 2 or 3 years.
Hon. W. L. Young: Who told you that?
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: I am not going to say who told me, but I know for a fact that
there was a difference of opinion and that as a result the decision was delayed for about 6
months. The proposal was considered by a special Cabinet committee on transport, and
some members wanted the extension to be made in one move, while others wanted it phased
in over a period of 2 or 3 years, for the very reasons I am advancing. I am sure that, in the
long run, the minority members in the committee will be proved right. I do not know which
group the Minister was in, but think he was probably in the minority group and will therefore
be proved right in the long term.
Another very good reason for advocating a phase-in system is that it would give the
smaller road transport operators a chance to strengthen their infrastructure and withstand


## p. 1888 (#344) ###########################################

1888
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
inevitable competition. Given a phasing-in period, the smaller road transport operators
would have an opportunity to strengthen their operations and make gradual extensions.
They would appreciate what was going to happen and build up their infrastructure, replace
some of their vehicles, and generally place themselves in a position whereby they could
withstand pressure from competition and takeover bids from the larger transport operators.
That is a very important point, and I had hoped that the Minister would give it more
consideration before agreeing to a formula providing for an immediate extension to 150 km.
I ask the Minister and Government members generally to explain the new distance
charge proposed in the Budget. At this stage it is an unknown quantity, and that is why road
transport operators and the Road Transport Association have withheld their wholehearted
support for the Government's move; they do not know how the distance charge will be
structured, at what level it will be set, or how it will apply to them. I can well understand why
the road transport industry is reserving its position. If the new distance charge is set too high,
small trucking operators will be unable to compete and road transport will inevitably become
the preserve of the larger monopolies. Indeed, that is one of the reasons the road transport
industry did not support the Wilbur Smith report.
The Minister will be aware that one of the reservations the Road Transport Association
has had for several years, ever since the Wilbur Smith report was made public, has been that
if the Government of the day opted for an open slather transport system, with free
competition between road and rail, some of the smaller operators would virtually be forced
out of business and be unable to compete with the major combines operating on our roads
today. They were firmly opposed to that possibility. The extension to the 93.5 miles or 150
km limit that has been set is within the range acceptable to the Road Transport Association,
and I am glad that the Government has decided not to accept the recommendation made in
the Wilbur Smith report and allow a completely open slather system.
We must also consider the question of competition between road and rail haulage in
relation to energy, the other package deal introduced in the Budget. One can see a
contradiction here, in that there is likely to be an upsurge in the operation of road transport,
which, in turn, is likely to cause a greater demand on our energy resources. At this time we
are all very much aware of the need to conserve energy. The Wilbur Smith report, which the
Government has leaned on rather heavily, was presented to the Government of the day well
before the increase in oil prices. Many of the recommendations in that report immediately
became irrelevant with the new cost of oil. We were obliged to have another look at the total
scene and view the Wilbur Smith recommendations in light of the new situation. I question
whether the Government has done this, and that is another reason for my recommendation
to phase in all the increases over a given period of 2 to 3 years, to be certain that all these
factors have received due and proper weight.
I turn now to another point, also under transport, and attack the Government for the
treatment accorded to the Transport Advisory Council and the Road Transport Association.
Ever since this Government took office, from the Prime Minister down, it has said, "You
will have consultation before decisions are made." The New Zealand Herald of 1 August
quoted statements by Mr Norris Collins and Mr Neil Clark, members of the Transport
Advisory Council, and statements from the Federation of Labour, the road transport
industry, and others on the council, condemning the Government for its stance. The Press of
27 June carried this headline, "Abuse makes me hot". Well, when a Minister does not do the
things he says he will, what can he expect? I can perhaps understand why he got a bit hot.
The Government's treatment of the Transport Advisory Council, which was to have been
the principal adviser to the Government on transport matters, is nothing but a blatant breach
of the solemn undertaking that the Government would consult with them and the Road
Transport Association before final decisions were made regarding the extent of the 40-mile
limit for road transport haulage without a permit, and matters related thereto. The railway
organisations were treated with a similar, cavalier attitude. The much lauded Road Trans-
port Advisory Council was brushed aside until Tuesday 19 July. It had not met for 11
months. Under the Labour Government, that council met regularly every 2 months, and
sometimes more. It also had special committees for certain jobs.
The present Government and the Minister have been pacifying transport organisations
with a firm assurance that they would be consulted before a final decision was made. That
promise was broken throughout 1976 while the officials committee and the special Cabinet
committee argued behind the scenes on the transport industry. The practical transport men
have not been consulted. In February 1977, driven to the limit and having no confidence in
the Minister, the Road Transport Association wrote to the Prime Minister. The key point of


## p. 1889 (#345) ###########################################

3 August
1889
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that letter was that the promised consultation had not been forthcoming. The Minister can
talk about the Labour Government having a number of Ministers. The National Govern-
ment had a Cabinet committee. The Prime Minister was asked to intercede because no
progress had been made. In February, Mr Gresham, Executive Director of the Road
Transport Association, said that the association could not afford to wait endlessly for the
report because of important investment decisions that needed to be made in the industry.
The Minister nods his head, saying he knows about that. He appreciated the problems in the
industry, but no decision was forthcoming. On 2 March, the Prime Minister assured the
transport industry that it would be consulted before a final decision was made by the
Government on the 40-mile limit and side issues. Mr Ian Pheloung, President of the Road
Transport Association, reported to the industry's conference in May: "We know some
members of the Cabinet favour the imposition of some form of a long distance fee. We have
put up weighty arguments against such a proposal, but it remains to be seen if politicians see
the folly of such a measure." Well, the Budget tells us that the Government did not see the
folly of such a measure, and a long distance fee, to which the Road Transport Association is
absolutely opposed, is to be included.
We know that the warnings from the Road Transport Association about a long distance
fee relating mainly, I am assured, to the cost of users of transport, have been ignored.
Transport operators were concerned, not only for their own operations, but for the total cost
of transport to consumers if, in fact, a long distance fee was to be applied to them. Such a
charge is to be imposed. The Minister and the Government will not tell us what that fee is to
be. I had hoped that the Minister would tell us when he was speaking in the debate.
Hon. C. C. A. McLachlan: You used half my time with your interjections.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: The Minister did not tell us how the fee is to be calculated,
or any of the details that should have been in the Budget. Government members have asked
whether the Opposition supports the Government's proposals about transport. I said, "Tell
us how the long distance fee is to be calculated and how much it will be, and I shall give an
answer after consultation with my colleagues." The next Opposition speaker would have
given the answer straight away, but we cannot get any response from the Government as to
how the long distance fee is to be applied, what rate is to be set-no details at all. The
Government has not even consulted with the transport industry on these questions.
In view of the Government's past performance, the road transport industry fears it will
not be consulted at all but will be again presented with another fait accompli, devised in the
Prime Minister's "think tank" and passed down the line for obedient action or acquiesence.
That is the case with the Budget proposals, because this is what the transport industry had on
19 July, and the Budget came down 2 days later. On 5 July, I asked the Minister of Transport
in the House if he still intended to refer these questions to the Transport Advisory Council
before finality was reached. He replied, "Yes, and also to the Road Transport Association",
but all the time he and his colleagues had no intention of doing so. It was blatant deception
of the worst type. The Prime Minister was not only a party to it; he aggravated the position.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member knows very well that "blatant deception of the
worst type", when applied to a member of this House, is quite unparliamentary. He will
withdraw that expression.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: Very well, Mr Speaker, I will withdraw it. The Prime
Minister was a party to it, and further aggravated the position when he opened the
Taumarunui railway station on Saturday 16 July, 5 days before the presentation of the
Budget, and still with no consultation between the Government and the Road Transport
Association. On that occasion the Prime Minister said it was important that the Railways
respond positively to competition when the Government announced relaxation of the 40-
mile limit for road transport haulage. He also said that an announcement would be made
shortly. He was telling the country then that a decision had already been made, 5 days before
the Budget came out. He called for the Railways to compete positively in the new situation,
but how can it? Where is provision for modern rolling-stock and related equipment? It just is
not there. Remember the sinister words of the Minister of Railways in the March 1976 issue
of Transport News. He said he was convinced that road transport was not being used to its
fullest, and suggested that some heavy capital expenditure on the rail system could possibly
be avoided by better utilisation of the road transport fleet.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentleman but he has fully used
his time.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I do not know whether I should spend too much
time dealing with the two points raised by the previous speaker.


## p. 1890 (#346) ###########################################

1890
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
An Hon. Member: It was one main point.
Hon. T. F. GILL: Yes, it was one main point. We had a tirade about the New Zealand
Road Transport Association's disagreement with the Government's policy. I have a letter
signed by B. P. Gresham, the executive director of the New Zealand Road Transport
Association, dated 22 July, the day after the Budget, which states, "I am pleased to advise
that last night's Budget revealed a broad policy statement on road transport which generally
found favour with our association as the attached press statement confirms". Now why did
we have that tirade about the attitude of the Road Transport Association when we know the
true position as stated in the press statement, "The constructive transport policy heralds a
new era for internal goods transport to be marked by increased competition❞—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! If the honourable member is reading a statement from outside
the House relating to a current debate, then it is not in order. The Budget speech is the
opening speech in this debate in speaking to the motion that the Appropriation Bill be now
read a second time. Therefore reading an outside statement on the content of the Budget
itself, and not on its broad principles, is not in order.
Hon. T. F. GILL: Thank you, Mr Speaker, I should have remembered that salient
point, and I am sorry I did not. I had not prepared what I intended saying, and was replying
to the member for Timaru. I can tell him from memory that the New Zealand Road
Transport Association is very satisfied with the broad proposals in the Budget.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: No, they are not.
Hon. T. F. GILL: I cannot quote the letter because Standing Orders prohibit it, but the
press statement quite definitely stated that this would herald a new era for competition and
efficiency. How sad it is that the honourable member is the only one out of step. He
complained about the Budget debate. All that is wrong with it so far is that nearly 50 percent
of the speeches we have had have followed the line taken by the Leader of the Opposition,
who was so soporific in his address that many of his own supporters were sound asleep in the
middle of it. A member says that four were. I do not know whether that was the number, but
many were.
The reason the Leader of the Opposition could make nothing of the Budget was that it
was such a sensible document. He could not find anything to get his teeth into. Everyone
agrees it was an excellent Budget. When the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was Minister
of Finance in 1975 Government expenditure had increased by 28 percent, but last year it was
brought back to 2.8 percent. The number of people on the Government's payroll declined by
1.5 percent while the number employed in the private sector increased by 2.5 percent.
I should now like to say a few words about immigration. I am extremely pleased that the
Government has set up a committee to study the population under the new planning council.
The committee is headed by a very good man from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and
includes the president of the Demographic Society. I hope that at last material will be
obtained that can be publicly debated, so that the people can decide what sort of country
they want in terms of population. Do we want nil population growth or increased popula-
tion, and if we want increased population how large an increase, and how quickly? We want
to know where it will come from; will it result from immigration or the encouragement of
natural growth. If it does not come from immigration then what about training young New
Zealanders in the skills we have traditionally imported? All those matters have to be
answered. In the meantime the Government is administering an immigration policy in
accordance with the policy that it took to the electorate. I was recently bemused by a
reported statement made by the Leader of the Opposition, in which he quoted statistics to
show that every New Zealander who left this country cost the country $38,000 by the time
that person had reached the age of 20 years. The Leader of the Opposition then multiplied
that figure and said that the cost of exporting New Zealanders is greater than our exports of
beef.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: And so it is.
Hon. T. F. GILL: That is the parallel he drew, and the member for Henderson agrees
with it. Why did the Leader of the Opposition not speak about something he must have
known more about? In 1974 when he was Prime Minister, the number of New Zealanders
who left the country either permanently or on long-term departure amounted to 28 987. If he
had multiplied that figure by $38,000 then the figure would amount to as much as he
borrowed in that year. At a cost of $38,000 each we must have exported New Zealanders
worth $1,101,506,000. This Government does not measure people that way. If a New
Zealander costs the country $38,000 by the time he is 20, then most of the cost was paid by
his parents. The remainder was paid by the taxpayers who would be very happy to pay it to


## p. 1891 (#347) ###########################################

3 August
1891
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
educate and care for the health of our young people. The Leader of the Opposition tried to
put a money value on the number of young New Zealanders who exercise their right to go
overseas for training and for work, but who come back. This Government just does not think
in that way.
I should like to have a closer look at some of the figures. I have been told by various
media correspondents and by some cartoonists that I am unaware of the statistics which show
what has been going on. I have had a good deal of experience with statistics. I remember one
time in London when a statistician who was seconded from the Bank of England told me, "I
can only give you the figures; you are the man with the experience and the time to study
them, interpret them and apply them". Yet many people pick little handouts from statistics
and rush into print or make statements when they do not have the experience, the
knowledge or the ability to understand them. I will tell the honourable member for
Henderson, who is trying to interject, one or two things which might surprise him. Some
Opposition members at the election tried to frighten mothers by saying that a National
Government would not allow New Zealanders to come home again, but this Government
does not treat New Zealanders as emigrants. They are free to come and go as they will.
However, let us put the New Zealanders to one side for a moment and deal with others.
In 1974, 39 988 immigrants came to New Zealand. In other words, the number was a dozen
short of 40 000. To cope with such a situation we would have had to build a city the size of
Whangarei, Gisborne, or Nelson, and there would still have been 10 000 immigrants with
nowhere to live. All the hospital facilities, houses, schools, and transport services would
have been needed to support that number.
Hon. Mrs. T. W. M. Tirikatene-Sullivan: Did none leave?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I will speak about that later. New Zealanders leaving the country are
irreplaceable because they leave behind a certain set of circumstances, and married men with
wives and families cannot be brought in and pushed into those circumstances. The honour-
able member can think that if she likes, and the Leader of the Opposition obviously thinks
that because he has put a price of $38,000 on each head, and has equated that with the cost of
exporting beef. He has also said that the people coming in will replace the people going out.
When my daughter went overseas she was not replaced by somebody coming in, and she left
a gap in our home that will never be filled. In 1974, 39 988 people arrived in New Zealand,
and in 1975 the figure was 33 531. That is why the National Party at the time of the last
election, said it would cut immigration drastically to a maximum level of about 5000. I
believe that policy has been carried out very well, because less than 2000 people entered
New Zealand last year.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: It was a cutback originated by the Labour Government.
Hon. T. F. GILL: Well, well, is that so? I am stuck for words. The Labour Party said
that it could not be done, but did not say it had been trying to do it for years. The National
Party said it could happen, and it has.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Yes, it has happened.
Hon. T. F. GILL: I accept the compliment of the member for Henderson, and I am glad
he recognises that it has happened.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: And I accept yours to us.
Hon. T. F. GILL: I will also tell the member for Henderson that the Government will
not stop New Zealanders going overseas, and will not build up a pool of unemployment.
Many people still want to immigrate to New Zealand. Recently the Minister of Defence said
that the Navy wanted to bring in more people, and 400 inquiries have been received already.
An Auckland firm that placed one advertisement in a London paper received 2000 replies.
The member who preceded me said that people were moving to Australia, because they
found prospects in Australia more attractive than those in New Zealand. Australian arrival
and departure figures on long-term migration show that more Australians have come to this
country than have left it. Since 1971 the net gain has been as follows: 1971, 4000; 1972, 4000;
1973, 6000; 1974, 8000; 1975, 9000; and, 1976, 5000. Australian people are coming here in
large numbers, and are not returning home. In 1975, 12 000 Australians came to New
Zealand and only 3000 returned home. Those people are staying because they believe this is
a good country in which to live.
I want to say a few words to the member for Southern Maori, who is worried about the
New Zealanders who go overseas and do not return. In 1976, 26 620 New Zealanders left,
and 17 322 returned, which is a net loss of 9288. Statistics consistently show that thousands
more New Zealanders returned home after a temporary absence than ever left. In 1971, 104
000 people arrived, and 99 000 left. Every year, about 3000 more New Zealanders return


## p. 1892 (#348) ###########################################

1892
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
than leave. Where do they come from? Those people indicated that their departure was
long-term, but when they returned they indicated they had been away for less than a year.
Although they intended to stay away for a long period, they all liked New Zealand so much
that they returned.
What happens when you apply those figures? In 1976, statistics showed that 17 000 long-
term migrants arrived and 26 000 left, making a net loss of about 9000. When you add to that
figure the 7290 people who left for a long-term visit, but returned within a year, the loss was
only 1908. We hear a lot of nonsense from the Opposition on these statistics. Whenever the
Department of Statistics releases a statement showing what has happened month by month,
the Opposition grabs it and makes misleading statements. More New Zealanders are
travelling overseas this year than in the past, and I do not know the reason, but within a year
or two, statistics will tell us. I believe we will see the same numbers returning as we have seen
in past years.
Much mention has been made of the skilled people leaving New Zealand. The person
who leaves this country is an average man, and New Zealanders are skilled people. We do
not have a large unskilled class, so most of the people leaving are skilled. In 1976,
professional, technical, administrative, executive and managerial people represented 20
percent of the departures. Clerical workers, sales workers, farmers, fishermen, loggers,
transport and communication workers made up 44 percent of the departures, and 36 percent
were people with no occupation whatsoever.
Mr Wellington: How many boilermakers?
Hon. T. F. GILL: Not enough. They do not come up in the statistics as boilermakers. I
shall now leave the immigration portfolio, because of lack of time, and speak about health.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who was once a Minister of Health, did not leave his
mark on anything of note. Last night he quoted some figures and stated that the Government
had put a 1c tax on beer, a 1c tax on a nip, and a 1c tax on a packet of cigarettes, which would
amount to $18 million, but that amount could not be found in the estimates. He said the
money would go to the Consolidated Revenue Account and would not be spent on health. I
shall now help him out. I should have thought that the former Minister of Finance, who
served on the Public Expenditure Committee for many years when I was the chairman,
would have known his way around the estimates.
Miss Dewe: He is still on the committee.
Hon. T. F. GILL: He is still on the committee. I hope he knows his way around the
estimates better than he demonstrated last night. For his information I shall give him the
extra commitments for community health to be spent this year. If he looks at the Depart-
ment of Health estimates he will see that under Programme I the Government will spend
$25,000, under Programme II, $2,175,000, under Programme III, $4,508,000, under Prog-
ramme IV, $1,560,000, under Programme V, nothing will be spent, and under Programme
VI, $2,675,000.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: How much does that add up to?
Hon. T. F. GILL: It is a hefty total, and adds up to $18 million. The amounts are
committed and the show is on the road. Under Programme VII the Government will spend
$5,940,000, and under Programme VIII, $900,000. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition
will not find one small item of expenditure coming out of this tax money, because it is under
the Education vote. The nursing programme was not budgeted for, so Health will transfer
$217,000 to Education to transfer the nursing programme from the hospitals to the technical
institutes in Southland and the Waikato.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Where?
Hon. T. F. GILL: In Hamilton and in Invercargill, which is under the Southland
Hospital Board. If the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, the former Minister of Health and
former Minister of Finance, comes to me, I shall give him all I have said in writing, all tabled
so that he will have no excuse for saying what he said in the House last night. He said that the
Government had put a tax on beer, on nips, and on cigarettes, and that only $5 million of
that money was estimated for health purposes, the remainder going to the Consolidated
Revenue Account. That is quite wrong, but I expected that from the member.
I should like to go into detail about health, but I do not have much time. The
Government will employ another 92 public health nurses and 22 health assistants with
transport to work on the child health problems in various parts of New Zealand. The
Government has allotted $6 million for public health and environmental protection, and
more will be spent on education this year. Out of the $6 million a mobile ear clinic will be
established for the treatment of chronic ear infections.


## p. 1893 (#349) ###########################################

3 August
1893
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
I shall spend a little time discussing the problem of New Zealand children's health. I
remind the House that statistics indicate a continuing decline in infant mortality. In the 1 to
4-year age group in 1965, there were 106.6 deaths per 1000 children, in 1972 the figure had
decreased to 95.3, and in 1974, to 83.3. People read statistics and believe them without
understanding them. The fact is that New Zealand's infant mortality is declining year by
year-there is no doubt about that. In the 1 to 4-year age group in 1972, motor vehicle
accidents accounted for 15 of the 95 deaths, drownings for 9 and other accidents for 11. The
infant mortality rate is not only related to health and health services, but to accidents and
congenital abnormalities. If one splits the figures one finds that in 1972 only 45 percent of the
infant mortality was due to illness, in 1973, 42 percent, and in 1974, 37 percent.
I hope that members on both sides of the House will take note of these figures. The
Government is doing its best to improve infant mortality, and the situation is not worsening
as has been suggested by the media. Dr David Geddes, the Director of the Plunket Society
said, "If we wish to improve our mortality rate we must first and foremost make our country
a safer place for children to live in". That applies to all aspects of living, including health. We
have to do more in the area of health, and will do more. The Government has an
understanding of the problem, knows its limitations, and is tackling them rigorously. Of the
$17 million, $1.5 million will go to family health. It is expected that a substantial part of that
allocation will go to the Plunket Society, enabling the employment of more plunket nurses.
[Interruption.] I wish "John Boy" would wait until his turn comes.
Squadron Leader Drayton: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I know that my colleague,
whom the Minister has referred to, is able to protect himself. Is it not correct that when the
Minister speaking refers to a member on this side of the House he should say the honourable
member or the member for his particular electorate, and not a TV character?
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: One should also draw attention to the fact that while
interjections are usually welcome in the House persistent interjections are not welcome.
Mr Kirk: It may help the Speaker to know that I was drawing attention to the fact that
although the Minister has said that the infant mortality rate is declining, children in my
electorate go to school without school lunches and without proper clothing in the winter. I
was suggesting that the Minister of Health might comment on this problem.
Mr SPEAKER: It is plain that the member who has just spoken was abusing, and
knowingly abusing the rules of the House. He is making a little political speech under the
guise of arguing a point of order. The point of order was quite correctly raised, and although
it was not as far as I noticed a grave breach, it is a breach to refer to a member of the House
by fancy or offensive names. That term should be withdrawn. Nevertheless, it is quite out of
order to stand up and make a straight-out political speech, which has nothing to do with the
point of order. The Minister of Health will withdraw that term.
Hon. T. F. GILL: The assumption that it was addressed to a member of the
Opposition-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! First of all the term must be withdrawn.
Hon. T. F. GILL: Yes, Mr Speaker, I withdraw the term, which was not specifically
directed at anybody, but I can see that the cap fitted.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member is aggravating the position. There was
a mild transgression. He referred to a member not as the member for so-and-so, or the
honourable member, but with a fancy or somewhat offensive name. He withdrew the term
properly, and then said something about the cap fitting, which means that he "de-withdrew"
it. Now he will withdraw it again, please.
Hon. T. F. GILL: I withdraw it again, Mr Speaker. Can you tell me how much time I
have left?
Mr SPEAKER: Thirty-eight seconds.
Hon. T. F. GILL: We have money for the chiropody benefit. We have money for
syringes and needles for diabetics. We have money for the practice nurse subsidy scheme.
Next year we are starting a family medicine training programme that will enable 30 doctors
to be trained and employed in family medicine as registrars with hospital boards-the first
good general practitioner training in the country, and a very successful programme. We will
start six health centres. I should like to be able to say that we will finish them before March,
but I am afraid we cannot because of the time limitation. We have $700,000 in the estimates
for this year, and there will be more next year. We intend to do the things we said we would
do. We will not adopt the Labour Party's policy which, if I understand its spokesman
correctly, is to have a talkathon in 3 years' time and then decide what will happen. That is
what the Labour Party did in 1972. It produced a white paper to come into effect in 1978.


## p. 1894 (#350) ###########################################

1894
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time is
exhausted.
Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga): The speech of the Minister of Health must have helped to
clarify the position for Opposition members. It will possibly straighten out a few of the
extraordinary ideas of the last Labour speaker, particularly his ideas on immigration. It was
refreshing to hear the Minister's clear enunciation of the various points, and his explanation
of important health matters. The debate so far has been clearly marked by the lack of life on
the Opposition benches. The Leader of the Opposition set the tone of the debate for the
Opposition, as did its Deputy Leader. I am sure that no Labour leader has found it more
difficult to oppose a Budget.
The Leader of the Opposition-a former Prime Minister, now the leader of what
remains of a very large party-succeeded very quickly with his soporific, hypnotic, sleep-
inducing speech in losing the attention of his own members; if he cannot hold the attention of
his own members, what does he do to the rest of the country? We have already heard how
Labour members were lulled gently to sleep as he droned on, attacking the Budget in what
must be regarded as the most unconvincing speech from this totally unconvincing Leader of
the Opposition. He rambled on through what can be described only as his worst speech
ever-although it was possibly equal to some of his unconvincing speeches as leader of the
last Labour Government. Unconvincing he was, and rightly so, because one needs only a
modicum of intelligence to realise his failure as a Minister of Finance and as the leader of the
last Labour Government. He must have been aware of that failure himself. The shortcom-
ings of the Labour Government were the responsibility as much of the Prime Minister and
Minister of Finance as of anybody else.
It is important that the country be reminded again of some of the activity and inactivity
that marked the 3 years Labour was in office. The Labour Government's inactivity left New
Zealand almost bereft of overseas financial reserves, and produced an uncontrolled, massive
internal deficit. This cannot be overlooked, and it is important continually to remind the
House and the country of it. Members opposite might well sit in silence and ponder on these
facts, because the seriousness of the position was unprecedented in our history. From a level
of more than $1,000 million when Labour came into office in 1972, our overseas reserves
were eroded until we had a massive balance of payments deficit of approximately $1,200
million when Labour was thrown out of office in 1975. That is an incredible figure and, what
is more, the internal deficit before borrowing was predicted to be $1,400 million. This has
been said before, and it will be said again and again until its significance is clearly and
properly understood: what was to have been a $1,400 million deficit at March this year was
reduced to $506 million by careful, intelligent management of the affairs of State. That was
achieved not by letting things drift along, nor by neglecting expenditure, but by careful
control and responsible management. People now realise that the country is being controlled
by a responsible Government, led by a man who understands the difficulties facing the
country and who is tackling those difficulties responsibly.
An uncontrolled and totally unacceptable level of immigration has already been
referred to tonight. In 3 years, the figure was nearly 90 000. This put a strain on housing,
power demands, education facilities, social services, and capital works, far beyond the
economic resources of the country. During the National Party's time in Opposition, the
Labour Government was constantly reminded of this strain. I should like to read from an
earlier Budget: "Net inward immigration increased from an average of 6400 for the 3 years
to 1972 to an annual average of 29 500 in 3 years to March 1975.” The Budget refers to the
contribution made by immigrants, and then states: "However, the heavy inflow in the last 3
years has put considerable pressure on housing and other resources." That statement is
taken from the Budget presented by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition when he was
Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. In the 1975 Budget, the Labour Govern-
ment showed that it had begun to realise what was happening, despite the fact that the trend
had begun shortly after Labour came into office. Even then nothing was done—it was a case
of shutting the door after the stable had bolted.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Whoa, Neddy!
Mr DOWNIE: Shutting the stable door after the horse had bolted might be a better way
of putting it.
An Hon. Member: Putting the cart before the horse?
Mr DOWNIE: That is right-putting the cart before the horse; it is the same difference.
Putting the cart before the horse describes very well what was happening. There were no
controls whatever on the number of people coming into the country. There were neither


## p. 1895 (#351) ###########################################

3 August
1895
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
houses nor facilities for the immigrants. The Labour Government certainly did put the cart
before the horse by not ensuring there were financial resources to deal with the position and
make it possible for the country to absorb a large inflow of people. The Labour Government
failed to act, and it came through very clearly in the 1975 Budget that there was a complete
lack of incentives, a lack of anything that would get New Zealand back on to the right road.
If one reads that Budget right through, it becomes apparent that the Labour Government
was bereft of ideas. I believe that they were relying on the vast sums they expected to come
in through their State superannuation scheme.
We have also heard references, particularly by the Leader of the Opposition, to the
globe trotting of the Prime Minister. I shall refer to a few points here, merely to illustrate
how totally out of touch the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues are in this regard.
All thinking New Zealanders are aware of the need for the country's Prime Minister to put
our case to the world, to our trading partners, and to those countries that are playing an
increasingly important part in the future of our exports, which in turn will determine our
future standard of living and prosperity. I believe this is becoming understood more and
more, even if it is not clearly understood by members of the Labour Opposition.
All New Zealand is aware that, single-handed, the Prime Minister put the truth of New
Zealand's attitude on sporting issues and racial matters-and in New Zealand we have no
need ever to apologise for our stand on these matters-before the heads of the Common-
wealth, and so exposed the liars of HART and CARE, along with their friends. I suggest
that 100 years ago or even less these people would have been branded as traitors, because
they were, wittingly or unwittingly, destroying or trying to destroy the country. Members of
the House who have been overseas in the last 2 years would have encountered comments
that were a direct result of the statements that have gone out of this country from these two
groups and their associates. Does the Leader of the Opposition, for instance, disagree with
the Prime Minister's action? Does he feel that he should not have gone overseas? Does the
Leader of the Opposition disagree with the Prime Minister's attendance at the OECD
meeting in Paris, when for the very first time he was able to gain new recognition for New
Zealand's pastoral exports? That is still a problem, but the Prime Minister made a major
contribution. Of course, we know full well that it has been followed up by the good work of
the Deputy Prime Minister, and the teamwork is something for which New Zealand is
extremely indebted.
The criticisms made by the Leader of the Opposition without doubt lack conviction and
substance. No one was convinced by what he said, not even his colleagues on the Oppositon
benches. Had the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues taken the trouble to read the
Budget, they would probably have made different speeches. They would have realised that
one of the main points in the Budget this year is its incentives, which have been well
accepted. Incentives are basic to the National Party philosophy, and have been built in to
encourage the conservation of energy. After all, we know only too well the tremendous costs
today of imported and fossil fuels. We all know what we need, and we also have reserves; we
have resources within this country that we must use to the full.
The incentives for industry are to encourage the changeover to plant that makes use of
coal, LPG, or natural gas. There are tax concessions for businesses prepared to use these,
and also 100 percent tax writeoffs in the first year for equipment designed to control the use
of energy, for industrial insulation, and for all these areas that collectively make the
difference between having adequate reserves and using them intelligently, as we must. The
heat exchange equipment and adjustment, the sealing of energy leaks, and the insulation of
industrial building are all part of the total policy to conserve energy, to use it intelligently
and not wastefully. The conversion of equipment from electricity to indigenous resources is
another very important point. The incentives have also been taken into the home, with a
$200 grant for the natural gas service connection to each new household.
Before long, Maui will go on tap; we will have considerable reserves there, but again we
cannot afford to waste this resource. Now is the time to become conscious of the importance
of conservation. There were no energy incentives in the 1975 Budget, although we were then
fully aware of the extent to which we depended on overseas fossil fuels, with their enormous
costs. However, no moves were made, there was not one incentive to save in the 1975
Budget. Incentives to save energy were not part of the Labour Party's policy—or, if they
were, nothing was said about them. Socialism the world over destroys incentives, because it
needs no incentives. Incentives to conserve will form the habit to save, and this we must do.
The National Government is giving the lead, in marked contrast to Labour's propensity to
waste; in 3 short years that shattered the economy, which the National Government is


## p. 1896 (#352) ###########################################

1896
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
pledged to restore-and restore the economy it will. There is no question about that.
Again, incentives are provided for exports in agriculture, dairy products, meat, wool,
forest products, and manufactured exports. I shall briefly refer to manufactured exports, for
the benefit of an Opposition speaker who implied that little had been done in manufacturing.
I remind that gentleman that manufactured exports in the May 1975 year were worth $194
million; 2 years later, in May 1977, they were worth $478 million. Opposition members are
silent, as they should be, because these are points they need to understand. I trust that no
other member will make such a ridiculous suggestion that our manufacturing industries are
not playing their part in the building of this country. Incentives form the habit to export, and
these habits then become part and parcel of the whole approach and the policies that have
developed from manufacturers' thinking constantly in this matter.
One of the most effective incentives in the Budget is directed at the great bulk of the
taxpayers. By far the largest number of the 1 500 000 tax returns is returned by people in the
middle-and lower-income groups; the Minister of Finance realised that a real incentive is
needed there. Thousands and thousands of people do not have large savings or great share
investments, but they are the people who are, to a large extent, living hand to mouth, and
they are the ones who need a real incentive and encouragement to save. The introduction of
inflation-adjusted bonds is a most intelligent and courageous move. It is interesting that not
one Opposition member has dared to mention these.
Mr T. J. Young: I did.
Mr DOWNIE: One member says that he did.
Mr T. J. Young: And I like them.
Mr DOWNIE: And he likes them. I trust he is putting his money into those bonds. That
is very good, and is a move in the right direction. I suggest that most Opposition members
will take advantage of these bonds. The maximum is $1,000 which is a considerable sum, and
that will be increased in relation to whatever figure the consumer price index hits for that 12
months. Savings will be fully protected. As has already been explained, an individual can
deposit $1,000 a year with $5,000 as the maximum, which must be kept in the account for 5
years. Many people will be encouraged to save regularly.
One of the most important incentives is that to save for one's first home. The incentive
introduced last year has been extended, thereby giving young people the opportunity to
obtain the necessary deposit for their first family home. This important incentive is
consistent with the National Government's encouragement to the average New Zealander,
who does not have unlimited sources of wealth and whose savings come from his own
personal efforts. The incentives spelled out in the Budget this year are in marked contrast to
the 1975 Budget, which was completely devoid of any incentive to the average salary and
wage earner. Members opposite have not mentioned anything about the Government's
achievements in this area.
I want to spend some time in talking about the very important matter of health, because
health, wealth, and welfare are basic to individual security. The present Minister of Health
has shown genuine concern for his portfolio, which he has handled effectively. Many positive
moves have been made since the National Government took office: extension of the health
services, the construction of more health centres, the extension of the practice nurse scheme,
and greater domiciliary care. Emphasis is being directed to community service, and not just
hospital nursing. The Government considers this is the right trend. The training being given
in the technical institutes to the competent itinerant nurses will allow a much wider training
and greater understanding of the total health scene. Those nurses will be able to work in
conjuction with para-medical services, doctors, Department of Health officers, and others.
A competent itinerant nurse can help a family by caring for the sick and elderly in their own
homes, thereby avoiding the use of a hospital bed and making it more comfortable for the
person concerned. This system is proving extremely effective, and will be greatly extended.
More medical aid equipment will be made available. The nursing training scheme has
been extended to the Waikato Polytechnic and to the Southland technical institutes. It is
important to reflect that this training scheme is a direct result of the Carpenter report, which
was brought down during the term of the previous National Government. Although there
was a period of stagnation for 3 years, when the Labour Government was preoccupied with
its white paper on health, the National Government has restored confidence by continuing
the scheme. That confidence was desperately needed while the matter was being tossed
about right, left, and centre by the Labour Government, which had a peculiar idea about
State domination of the health services. That caused a lot of concern. It is as well to
remember that however well equipped hospitals are, and however competent are the doctors


## p. 1897 (#353) ###########################################

3 August
1897
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
and medical services, it is essential that doctors in private practice and the hospital boards
work together. The chain is as strong as its weakest link.
It disturbs me to hear complaints from people who have approached their doctors, only
to find that their telephone call has been answered by an answering service. Perhaps
insufficient thought has been given to instructing doctors' receptionists or nurses at the
hospital, to be able to give correct and helpful information to the person at the other end of
the telephone. This area needs looking at closely. Although it is easy enough to telephone
the fire brigade when there is a fire, it is not quite as easy to get the type of service one
should be able to get when telephoning a doctor. There should be more co-operation
between the New Zealand Medical Association, the hospital boards, and others to ensure
that the receptionists, who have the first contact with patients, should be properly trained in
the correct procedure to follow in an emergency. At present there are many weak links,
which should be looked at.
Health ties in very closely with welfare, especially when it concerns the elderly. It is
important that the services available to the community are used to the greatest extent. The
Minister of Social Welfare is to be congratulated on encouraging the great army of voluntary
social workers, especially those in Napier and Christchurch, who, under the guidance of the
Department of Social Welfare, are able to give a much better service than can be given by
departmental welfare officers alone. We shall see great advances in this area as a result of the
assistance and co-operation of voluntary social workers.
The Budget provides incentives and encouragement to the people, and shows them that
the Government is concerned for them in a practical way. It does not shed crocodile tears to
impress the electorate at election time, but works quietly and consistently, getting results
and assisting those people who need most help. As I mentioned before, incentives have been
given to exporters so that we can substantially increase our overseas reserves, and people
have been encouraged to save consistently, which will not only strengthen the country but
will also make individuals less dependent on the State. Vast amounts of capital and reserves
will be needed during the next few years to expand our markets in a changing world. We
have to be prepared to allow the Prime Minister to make his trips overseas, arduous though
they may be, because they are essential to New Zealand's prosperity and future progress.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn): The member for Pakuranga did a valiant job in attempting to
defend the National Government's Budget, but his heart was not really in it. He did his best,
but there was not much to defend; his contribution was therefore inplausible. Government
members will agree that the Minister of Immigration made some strange statements tonight.
He tried to suggest that at some time during the term of the Labour Government the
migration loss was the same as that experienced today. That was a strange statement, when
one considers that the National Party fought the election on the issue of excess
immigration—it makes nonsense of the political propaganda indulged in by the National
party during the election campaign.
The Minister also said that the immigration figures produced by the Department of
Statistics were being misused, and possibly even abused. He tried to suggest that the
department was attempting to produce misleading figures. The head of the Department of
Statistics, Mr Harris, made a statement in the press, and said that he must defend the
department's migration statistics, because some doubts had been expressed about the figures
the department was putting out. The Minister of Immigration tried to distort the figures
tonight. I am sure that the head of the department is completely justified in defending his
department. The Minister dismissed as balderash the suggestion that there was an outflow of
skilled people from New Zealand as a direct result of the disastrous policies of the
Government. The latest figures from the Department of Statistics arrived on my desk a day
or so ago, and they say a lot about the mass exodus of skilled people who are voting with
their passports and who are getting away from the National Government and its disastrous
economic policies.
For the benefit of those Government members who naively accept what their own
Minister tells them, let us objectively examine the figures to see exactly what is happening.
The figures up to May 1977 show that 1812 professional, technical, and similar people left
the country, giving a net loss of 1028. Departures of administrative, executive, and
managerial people amounted to 364, and 1168 clerical workers left New Zealand. When we
come to craftsmen, production process workers, and labourers, we find that 2472 left. Yet
the Minister of Immigration criticised the Leader of the Opposition for suggesting that when
an emigrant left New Zealand, he took with him all sorts of skills that had taken a lot of
money to develop, and the Leader of the Opposition gave a figure of $38,000.


## p. 1898 (#354) ###########################################

1898
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
The Minister attempted to suggest that the Leader of the Opposition was wrong. Here
are figures from an independent, objective source, and they have not been mucked around
with by the National Party in an attempt to suggest that the figures are incorrect. The total
departures amounted to 12 264, and included all sorts of skills that are desperately needed in
New Zealand. The figures speak for themselves, and rebut the nonsense spoken by the
Minister of Immigration. They show quite clearly that the abysmal economic policies being
followed by the Government are driving New Zealanders overseas in all categories.
Probably, if we hear any more criticism of the Department of Statistics, the people who work
there will also be driven overseas. The head of the department has said that the record
migration statistics have been established precisely.
The headline of a recent editorial in the Evening Post stated: "Migration losses-folly to
ignore signs". As we are talking about folly, the speech made by the Minister of Immigration
tonight typified the Government's folly. He closed his eyes to the number of people who are
going overseas. Let us see what Sir Frank Holmes said. I am sure that he, with all his skill
and expertise, is accepted very much as an authority by the National Government. After all,
that Government appointed him as chairman of the New Zealand Planning Council to assist
the Prime Minister. Sir Frank said there was a danger that New Zealand was losing too many
good people in the net migration losses in 1976. That independent and, in a sense, apolitical
source made a clear and uncluttered statement about immigration, showing that the
economic malaise engendered by the National Government had sent thousands of New
Zealanders overseas, taking their skills with them.
We are finding it somewhat difficult to sell our butter, lamb, and wool, but everybody
wants to buy New Zealand skills. It is a terrible indictment of the National Government that,
while our primary production is difficult to sell overseas, everybody wants the skills
developed in this country. That shows what the National Government has done to New
Zealand. What did Mr Lloyd Brown, President of the New Zealand Manufacturers Federa-
tion, say?
Mr Couch: What did he say?
Mr ISBEY: The learned member for Wairarapa wants to know what Mr Lloyd Brown
said. I shall tell him: "The skilled worker exodus could bring industry to a standstill. New
Zealand could eventually find itself with all the buildings, new projects, and equipment
needed for major industry, but with no skilled workers to staff them." I am sure that the
member for Wairarapa, with his appreciation of some of the leaders of New Zealand
industry, will accept what Mr Brown said.
I think it is very important to answer what the Minister of Immigration said tonight. In
my view the figures he used were completely incorrect. This is what the employers in the
New Zealand printing industry said in their journal: "Now, with the apprenticeship
throughput steadily diminishing and the supply of tradesmen from overseas deliberately cut
off by Government policy, this is surely bordering on insanity." Choose it any way you want.
Choose the statement made by Mr Lloyd Brown. Manufacturers are not members of the
Labour Party. No one could call them subversive; no one could call them members of the
Socialist Unity Party; no one could call them stirrers. They are responsible New Zealand
citizens, and they condemn the economic conditions brought about by the National Govern-
ment that have resulted in the mass migration of New Zealand skills. These are not my
statements; I am quoting leaders in various sections of industry.
After the comments made by Mr Lloyd Brown, the Minister of Immigration very
naively attempted to suggest that he was not aware of the problems of manufacturers. He
said, "If only Mr Lloyd Brown had come to me and told me they were having a problem in
finding the skills they require, I would have done something about it." What happened? A
few days ago a newspaper report said that New Zealand might cast wider its net for
immigrants, and it mentioned South Africa, Rhodesia, Japan, and all sorts of odd areas. But
it did not mention all those New Zealanders who would have stayed here if conditions had
been good and their jobs had been secure. Our traditional sources of immigrants have been
cut off, and nothing is being done.
Mr Malcolm: What happened under Labour?
Mr ISBEY: The member Eden asks what happened under Labour. What a senseless
question that is! After 20 months of National Government administration members opposite
are still trying to hark back to what happened under Labour. The member for Eden was one
of the worshippers of the new messiah who was going to rectify all New Zealand's economic
ills. What happened at the National Party conference? Where was the jubilation and the
mass hysteria of the 1975 election campaign meetings, with all those balloons and sweaters of


## p. 1899 (#355) ###########################################

3 August
1899
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
super-Rob? All the balloons have burst, and the sweaters are no more. It has come down to
sweat and blood and dust and dirt in the economic conditions the National Government has
introduced. Last year, we saw wonderful exercises in every type of gimmickry. With a
fanfare of trumpets the National Government set up an economic task force.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Is this your swan song?
Mr ISBEY: The deputy leader of our opposition went to the press and said that the
economic task force, set up early in the reign of the National Government, would assist the
miracle men to bring about a new, wondrous, economic society, the way New Zealanders
wanted it-jobs for all, houses for all, good social welfare, no problems from the Pacific
Islands, no stirrers from other places. The National Government was going to create a
sublime new society. A lot of able men were put on to the task force. It was a star-studded,
technicolour cast. Every day the Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, and other
Government members pat themselves on the back for having appointed a task force that was
to be the panacea for all the economic ills of our society.
That task force was appointed last year, but the Budget we are now debating is another
prophecy of doom. It is a surrender Budget, and will do nothing to improve our economic
conditions. A great deal of publicity surrounded the setting up of that force, and many
soothing slogans emanated from Government spokesmen: "We are setting up a task force
that will rectify all our problems and economic ills." I do not blame the task force members
for the Budget. They are able men, but their hands have been tied by a do-nothing
Government-a Government that cannot grasp the nettle and appreciate our economic
conditions. The Budget is an example of the Government's inertia and unwillingness to
tackle the problems that confront us.
Mr Malcolm: A good selection.
Mr ISBEY: The member for Eden regards the points I am raising as a good selection to
place before some of our friends who have come to look at just what the National
Government is doing. Government members also tend to suggest that in some way,
somewhere along the line, they have something to boast about. However, even the recent
National Party conference hit a new low in despondency. The only bit of excitement was
caused by the contrived demonstration outside the town hall. The political pundits said that
it was heaven-sent, because of the doldrums into which the conference had sunk, and that
the demonstration had provided a fillip in that it allowed the Prime Minister to deliver a
homily on demonstrations, law, and order.
What does the National Government have to boast about? Let us consider some of the
boasts made after its 18 months in office. The great boast is that the Prime Minister returned
recently from overseas and said, "Don't worry. Wherever I go overseas the National
Government has a good name, and I have no trouble in borrowing and increasing our debt
because of that good name." That proud boast by Government members indicates the brave
new world they believe they are creating. The Prime Minister's joyful cry when he comes
back to New Zealand is, "Don't worry. I've had no trouble in borrowing." Indeed, the
National Government has become expert in carrying the begging bowl overseas, and Cabinet
Ministers have become the beggers of the Western World. I remind the House that during
the election campaign National Party candidates attacked the Labour Government for its so-
called borrowing programme. The National Government has established new records in
borrowing, and now boasts that it is the champion at increasing our overseas debt. All
Government members are very proud of that reputation, and boast about it constantly. I
liken the situation to knowing a fellow living down the street, who says, "Look, I'm broke. I
am bankrupt, but don't worry about it. I know a fellow who is an easy touch, and I'll get a big
loan from him." That is the National Government's attitude, as demonstrated by the Prime
Minister.
I can see the Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the Minister for the Arts smiling to
himself, thinking about the great damage being done to New Zealand's arts and culture. A
day or two ago, a newspaper report revealed the alarm felt by the people who run the
Downstage theatre in Wellington. Downstage, one of the oldest surviving theatres in New
Zealand, has been forced to reduce its staff from 22 to 6 because of the Government's
parsimonious policy. That means that the theatre group will have to reduce its number of
visits to schools and for pensioners, and the opportunities for people to try to make a living
through cultural activities in the theatre. The member for Wellington Central, the
Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the Minister for the Arts, should be fighting the Treasury
and his Minister of Finance, his Prime Minister, to try to ensure that the arts in New Zealand
do not die. When the Labour Government left office eight professional theatres were


## p. 1900 (#356) ###########################################

1900
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
operating. Today only six are left, and they are all dying on their feet. Every day we read
statements to the effect that the National Government is not providing sufficient finance to
enable cultural organisations to continue their activities.
The Government made its biggest booboo in transport. Members opposite talk about
the extension of the 40-mile limit to 93.5 miles, apparently not seeing the great damage being
done to the Railways as a social service, which could be profitable if reorganised. The
Government has set out to assist certain sections of the road transport industry, but even the
leaders of this industry have expressed dissatisfaction with what the Government has
attempted to do.
Mr Latter: Mr Gresham?
Mr ISBEY: Yes, Mr Gresham, Executive Director of the Road Transport Association,
has said that he went to a Transport Advisory Council meeting, but in 90 minutes nothing
was decided. Mr Neil Clarke, a big employer in road transport and for many years a member
of the Road Transport Association, criticised the Government in the press on Monday for its
lack of activity in the whole transport area. Mr Collins, another executive member of the
Transport Advisory Council, has also criticised this Government in the press. In fact, every
member of that council has criticised the Government for its ineptitude and its failure to
develop a proper transport policy for New Zealand. This is tremendously important. By
increasing the 40-mile limit to 93.5 miles, many people in the road transport field will find
themselves competing with one another because there will be no smooth transition into a
proper system of competition between road and rail. As a result of this year's Budget, the
Government stands exposed in every way as being a Government that has failed miserably in
any attempt to repair the economic damage done to New Zealand.
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): I am not surprised the member for
Grey Lynn has put his name down for three Auckland electorates. Indeed, if I were he and
wanted to stand for Parliament in 1978, I would put my name down for Remuera or Tamaki
as my best chance. He will certainly not get in if he performs as he did tonight. One good
thing about following the honourable gentleman in this debate is that I can make my speech
without referring to anything he said, because he said nothing worth while. The Budget
brought down a fortnight ago was presented in an atmosphere of considerable economic
uncertainty. It followed 20 months of endeavour by this Government to put right some of the
gross errors of judgment in the economy by the third Labour Government, led by the
present Leader of the Opposition, aided and abetted by his successor as Minister of Finance,
the present member for Otahuhu, who gave us such an undistinguished address last night.
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: Very easily forgettable.
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: Yes. And it is too easy for us to forget how bad the situation
was that we were in at the end of 1975, and too easy to forget that in 20 short months we have
turned the internal deficit before borrowing from a potential $1,400 million to the more
realistic amount of $378 million provided in this year's Budget. In just 20 months we have cut
New Zealand's overspending by about $1,000 million, and at the same time we have reduced
the increase in the rate of inflation, albeit not enough. In addition, we have cut out the costly
and extravagant subsidies so much relied on by the democratic socialists opposite. In my
view, the significance of this achievement is not sufficiently recognised. The Deputy Leader
of the Opposition refers to this action as a fascination with balancing the books; it is typical
of the Labour Party that sound economic practices are so completely ignored by and so
foreign to it.
There is probably no area more sensitive than housing in times of economic difficulty.
This is as true today as it has ever been. We are suffering from the direct results of the
profligate policies of the third Labour Government, represented during its term of office by
the member for St. Kilda and the member for Manukau as successive, but certainly not
successful, Ministers of Housing, who decided that the volume of house production-in
other words, the number of houses-was the first priority. From the tenor of their speeches
and remarks, that still applies today. The single criterion of Labour's housing policy seems to
be, if you can say more houses were built this year than last, that represents success. That is
the view of the democratic socialist Labour Party opposite, and what a price we had to pay
for that Labour ego trip! Yes, during the Labour Government's term of office, a record
number of houses was built and I have no doubt that builders made record profits.
The real result of this numbers game was that home owners paid record prices. House
prices almost doubled in 3 years, increasing from over $13,000 to nearly $25,000. That was
an increase of $80 a week under the Labour Government. I presume that the member for
Hutt, who is trying to interject, is proud of that record. That is what his Government


## p. 1901 (#357) ###########################################

3 August
1901
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
achieved. Section prices trebled in those 3 years; they went up by 164 percent, or $33 a week.
Is that what the member for Hutt is proud of? Opposition members love to refer to forced
mortgage sales, but that was an even greater problem under the Labour Government, which
introduced special treatment for it in 1974. Yet, now, Labour members have the nerve to try
to make an issue of housing.
In 1972, when the previous National Government was in office, most people could
contemplete home ownership with confidence. Finance was reasonably available, and to find
the amount required between the first mortgage and the price of a home posed relatively few
problems. The Labour spokesman on housing in 1972 was the member for St. Kilda, who
promised the people a crash programme-and that is what they got. Perhaps it could be
described more aptly as a programme that crashed, because it steadily and remorselessly
dashed the hopes of the average young family man to have a home of his own. The member
for Manukau, a former Minister of Housing, tried to say that this Government had created
the gap between what can be borrowed and the price of a house, but that gap widened
dramatically under the Labour Government, particularly with Housing Corporation loans.
Yet, the other night, the same member talked about increasing Housing Corporation loans.
When he was Minister he would not increase them.
Today, those who come to the Housing Corporation to try to obtain loans-and many
do-immediately face the problem of having to raise a considerable amount as a second
mortgage. The two-income family that can afford the luxury of a large second mortgage
belongs to a group that can contemplate home ownership today. Another is the low-income
earner, particularly a solo parent on a domestic purposes benefit, because he or she is able,
within the limits of the basic loan plus the low-income supplement, to buy a house unit or an
already constructed unoccupied flat without much concern about. additional mortgage
commitments, as very little extra cash is involved. The direct result of the Labour Govern-
ment's 3 years in office is that a single-income family is at a distinct disadvantage today. The
Labour Party can look back on its term in office knowing that this is its legacy, and that in 3
years it did more harm to the building industry and to the concept of home ownership than
anyone could contemplate or achieve if he set out deliberately to do that type of damage.
Therefore, in the last 18 months this Government has had to try to restore the situation.
The National Government wants to see young family people able to contemplate home
ownership, and it wants to see that those who are prepared to work and save are given the
help that is needed. That is why the Government has improved the home ownership savings
scheme very generously, and that is why in recent months I have been exhorting young
people-whether married or single-to think ahead, to plan, and to save for their own first
home. That is why I have been stressing that, by putting aside not too large an amount—say,
$25 a week-in a home savings account, those individuals can achieve a home of their own.
In other words, if over a 3-year period an individual saves $4,150 of his own money, he will
have accumulated an additional $272 in savings bank interest and tax rebates of $1,610.
Therefore, after 3 years that individual will have $6,032 available in cash as a deposit towards
his first home. In other words, he will have $4,150 of his own and $1,882 in interest and tax
rebates.
Some people have suggested that this savings system is defeated by inflation, but they
have failed to realise that to turn $4,150 into $6,032 represents an effective interest rate far in
excess of the rate of inflation that we could expect, even under a Labour Government. I
want to emphasise again that two people-whether married or single-can combine their
savings and between them have $12,000 towards their own home in 3 years. They can have
about $16,800 in 4 years and, finally, after 5 years, with tax rebates and interest, they can
have over $23,000.
I shall deal with matters specifically included in the Budget, but before I do so I want to
restate some of the objectives of the Government's housing policy, so that what is being
done can be seen more clearly in the context of a total housing strategy. It is important to
remember that a housing policy is not the same as a house construction policy. I have already
mentioned the fascination the Opposition has with new house construction figures, ignoring
the use of existing housing stock, which is of growing importance to the country. The
Government wants to place the emphasis on the provision of mortgage finance with the
private sector. However, the Government will play its part and make finance available
where and when it is needed, but will not dominate the mortgage market as did the Labour
Government.
The new housing policy announced in the Budget continues the policy of reducing the
Government stock ratios payable by the savings banks; this means that over the next few


## p. 1902 (#358) ###########################################

1902
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
months $35 million will be released on to the mortgage market from this source alone.
Savings banks will be able to plan ahead, and would-be borrowers will know their prospects
of obtaining finance. The member for Manukau has said that the $35 million is a drop in the
bucket, but he has conveniently forgotten the $33 million released earlier and the $5 million
made available to the Post Office this financial year. In total, this means that the mortgage
market has received a boost of $73 million. Despite what the Opposition's financial expert
likes to say, it is a great deal of money and is not a drop in the bucket. He knows as well as I
do that the almost unlimited supply of mortgage finance made available by the Labour
Government in its first years of office caused these unprecedented price hikes in 1974 and
1975. The Government will not sit back and do nothing if more help and more funds are
needed, but the situation is delicate.
A target of between 26 000 and 30 000 new house constructions has been set for this
year. The Government will continue to take steps to make sure that this target is met,
because its policy is to ensure that the building industry is strong and profitable. The targets
set over the last 2 years were determined with three principle objectives in mind: first, to
build the number of houses that reflects a reasonable demand; secondly, to have regard to
the availability of resources, of money, and of materials and labour in the context of the
demands made on these resources by other sections of the economy; and, thirdly, to sustain
the building industry at a level that avoids the peaks and troughs caused by economic and
other factors.
The building industry plays a vital part in the social welfare and commercial aspects of
our economy, it must be kept viable, but it must not expect to be spoon-fed and feather-
bedded every time a chilly economic wind blows. Sudden upswings, such as those experi-
enced in 1974 and 1975, are as disruptive to the industry as is a depression, and it is certainly
in the best interests of the industry that we quickly find the level of activity that is attainable
and sustainable in the long term. The building industry has been reasonably co-operative and
understanding during this gradual reduction in targets. Some disapproval has been voiced,
and some concern has been expressed by individual builders about their future. However, I
believe that the Government must look after the industry as a whole, and not the affairs of
individual builders who have been adversely affected.
Two other aspects of saving are related to the question of housing finance. The first is
the freedom given to the savings banks to fix the interest rate on their investment accounts,
and the second is the issue of inflation-proof bonds, both of which are aimed at providing
more savings, which in turn means more finance for houses. Institutions that are housing-
oriented will be those on which we will rely for future housing finance. Trustee savings
banks, private savings banks, and building societies will play an ever-increasing role in New
Zealand's housing. I leave this aspect of housing with one final plea: for many people, home
ownership is as possible today as it ever was; it needs some planning, some effort to save,
much self help, and some determination, but for the people who possess those qualities
home ownership is not far away.
Attention has been paid during this debate to Housing Corporation interest rates.
During the last 2 years, two concessional rates of interest have been in force, 3 percent for
people whose income was less than $85 a week, and 5.5 percent for people whose income
was between $85 and $115 a week, above that income, the prime rate of 7.5 percent applied.
These income figures were subject to an additional $5 for each dependent child. Under the
new Budget proposals, three concessional rates will be in force: 3 percent for incomes below
$85 a week, 5 percent for incomes between $85 and $120 a week, and 6.5 percent for incomes
between $120 and $160 a week, for incomes above $160 a week the prime rate of 8.5 percent
will apply. The effect of these changes is that people who qualify for concessional rates will
pay less for their mortgage than they have paid, and more families will qualify for the
concession rates.
As an example, I shall consider a married couple with two children, who borrow $17,000
as a basic amount from the Housing Corporation, including the low income supplement.
Under the old rate, they would have paid 5.5 percent interest, or $23.35 a week, for the first
3 years. Thereafter, they would have paid interest at the rate of 7.5 percent, or $28.75 a
week. Under the new scheme, for the first 3 years of their mortgage the interest rate will be 5
percent, or a weekly repayment of $22.07. For the second 3 years the interest rate will be 6.5
percent, or a weekly repayment of $25.70. Thereafter, they will pay 8.5 percent interest.
Under the proposals in the Budget, they will pay $1.28 a week less for the first 3 years of
their mortgage, and $3.05 a week less in the second 3 years of their mortgage, altogether, in
the first 6 years of their mortgage they will pay $672.90 less than they would have paid under


## p. 1903 (#359) ###########################################

3 August
1903
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the previous arrangement. That is a worth-while reduction.
By reducing the weekly payments a mortgagee is required to pay in the early years of his
mortgage, the Government is helping the family with young children. A borrower with two
children and an income of between $130 and $170 a week will pay 6.5 percent during the first
3 years of his mortgage, as against 7.5 percent at present. The difference in weekly payments
is a saving of $2.13. We hear so much from the Opposition about increased interest rates that
it is surprising we have not heard a comment from the Opposition during this debate about
the advantageous effect of these interest rates. The spread of interest means that a person
who qualifies for a 3-percent loan will not be paying the maximum rate of interest until the
tenth year of his mortgage, instead of the seventh year as at present. It might interest
members to know—and I am sure many do know that the average time within which a
Housing Corporation mortgage is paid off is about 9 years. I believe that the adjustments to
the interest rates are worth while, and will help the family man.
A number of other aspects of the Budget refer to housing, and obviously I do not have
time to deal with them all. I shall just briefly repeat some of them. The tax exemption of
$300 on mortgage interest earned must encourage private investment back into the mortgage
market. This taxation incentive means that the return to the lender increases the desirability
of the investment, while at the same time ensuring no increase in the cost to the
borrower-effectively, both will benefit. The tax exemption of up to $500 for elderly couples
or individuals who vacate large family homes and leave at least half the Government
valuation in the property as a lender mortgage will, we hope, assist in making large family
homes available to those with young families, and it should enable better use of our existing
housing stocks.
A very important aspect of the Budget is the decision to provide finance for those who
are required to live in tied accommodation to purchase new or existing houses for their
retirement, by doing away with the provision that they must live in the accommodation on
which Housing Corporation finance has been made available. This will particularly help farm
workers who are required to live on farms in the course of their employment, but who want
to move to a town or city when they retire and wish to build or buy a house in advance of
their retirement. They will, of course, be required to manage the tenancies themselves, but
the rents will have to be approved by the Housing Corporation.
I wish to refer briefly to the announcement made last Monday. We are not concerned
by, but we are cognisant of, the fact that there are some who find it difficult to refinance their
existing mortgages. This is another legacy from the last Labour Government-short-term
mortgages that were sometimes taken out under false pretences. The position is nowhere
near as bad as the Opposition would like us to believe. Indeed, in an article in the New
Zealand Herald recently, solicitors who were interviewed on the subject said that there was
not one case that was a question of not being able to find money to refinance; it was more a
question of social reasons, broken marriages, defaults in payment, and that sort of thing. We
do not believe that it is in the best interests of New Zealand that mortgagee sales should rear
their heads, and so we have made some finance available to take care of these circumstances.
The Labour Government took a similar action in 1974, but it simply said to the borrowers,
"We will lend you some money for a year. You go out and find yourselves some new source
of finance in that time." In fact, of course, they could not. In fact, of course, most of those
mortgages are now running on, overdue.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member. His time is spent.
Mr LATTER (Marlborough): I want to spend most of my time in talking about the
effect of this Budget for New Zealand, and for my electorate of Marlborough. Normally, I
would feel I should cut into my time to answer some of the rubbish that comes from the
preceding Opposition speakers; but in this case I do not have to do so, because we have just
listened to a very good speech from the Minister of Housing, with a most attractive housing
package. It was interesting to see that no Labour spokesman on housing and no Labour
members really bothered to listen. I may not comment on how many are here to listen.
I want to take some time-and I do not mind if it takes until the closure of the
House-to talk about transport, and about the load of rubbish we were given tonight by the
Minister of Transport in the last Labour Government, the member for Timaru. He did not
start by talking about transport. He gave some homespun ideas on the economy, and I noted
down that he placed great emphasis on the phrase "work must be rewarded". What a good
phrase! I think we all agree with that, but many people would also agree with me if I turn this
phrase around, and say that a reward must be worked for. Too many people expect that
work will automatically be rewarded, or that no work will be rewarded. As a country it is


## p. 1904 (#360) ###########################################

1904
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
time we turned this phrase around and said that if you want a reward you must work for it.
The member for Timaru, again in his homespun philosophy and his account of the
doings of the nation, said that the Government is now halfway through its term. He seemed
to take on almost a racing commentator's terminology, and I would say to him "Good stuff”,
because I have been brought up with Dave Clarkson commenting on races. If we are past the
halfway mark, all I want to say is that there is nobody else in the running, and you can
certainly count Opposition members out in this debate and in their contribution to the
running of the country.
The member for Timaru then, finally, started to talk about transport. After all the
bubblings he has had about transport, his biggest worry seemed to be this. First, he made a
very weak statement. He said, "Oh yes, we would have put up the 40-mile limit, too. We
thought it was the right thing to do". Then he tried to find something to criticise in the
Government's package on transport, and he came up with this: that it was all too quick, and
it should be in three phases. He said, "We would have lifted it from 64 km to 100 km, and
then we would have lifted it to 150 km." I wonder if he had really thought what he was
talking about. His mention of phases was very military-like, because, if you are planning an
attack on something, it is a good idea to put it in phases. If you are planning an attack on
something, the first thing you have to do is make sure you have got your planning right, then
you have to secure your starting line, and finally you have to cross your starting line. On this
question of transport, we have crossed the starting line halfway through our term, as he said.
Labour's record contrasts very badly indeed with that of the last 18 months, because the
Labour Government had 3 years, and not only did it not secure the starting line on transport
change, it did not cross it.
The next point he made, and it has come through in some very badly worded notices of
motion-I must not go outside the Standing Orders, but I believe there were some wrongful
words in them—was his great play on the old theme that the Transport Advisory Council was
not consulted. The fact is that at the meeting last August, after years of talking about
different ways of lifting the limit, after years of talking about different ways that we could
look at transport, after the Wilbur Smith report-which was the most massive planning
document the country has had-after green papers, white papers, and committee studies,
the Transport Advisory Council said to the Minister, "It is not much good your bringing us
back to talk until the Government has made the essential planning decision". There is a limit
to any committee work. Members can talk and talk and talk, and meet once a fortnight or
once a month, but in the end, unless the essential scenario is set, it does not get any further
forward. The Minister brought the TAC back just before the Budget, and no member could
criticise the Minister, when taxation measures are included in the Budget, for not giving the
council members the full information. As the previous Minister of Transport, the present
member for Timaru, has made a lot of fuss, and as I cannot quote the letter from Mr
Gresham, I shall simply sum it up by saying that he wrote to the Minister the day after the
Budget and said that the council was delighted and wanted to express its gratitude to the
Minister for the way he had liaised with it and had listened to its recommendations.
As a contrast, and because members opposite are critical, the Labour Government took
12 months to make a decision. Any member who is interested should look up Hansard. He
might also like to look back at this yellow document-it is not quite pink, and it is not
blue-the Budget of 22 May 1975. Last year, the member for Timaru said that the National
Government was not giving enough time to transport, and that the 1976 Budget had only
seven lines about transport. I like doing homework, and I looked at the 1975 Budget
presented by the present Deputy Leader of the Opposition. In that document, only 5 1/2
lines dealt with transport. I shall read only the last two, because the others are not worth
reading: ". . . a document entitled A new direction for New Zealand transport. Submissions
on this 'green paper' are now being considered" and I pay particular reference to the next
few words, because the submissions were being considered in May 1975 not by the TAC, the
Road Transport Association, or others, but-"by a committee of Government members".
After all the work, the Labour Government produced a green paper, and said that it would
have a committee of its own members.
Nothing more was heard until October-November, when the member for Timaru, the
previous Minister of Transport, said that the Labour Government had produced a white
paper. What happened then? Did the paper go back to the TAC? Not on your nellie. The
council did not know anything about it. In Hansard, the member is reported as saying that
the Government would then put the matter to a committee of officials. For 6 months the
committee was one of Government members, and then in Hansard the previous Minister is


## p. 1905 (#361) ###########################################

3 August
1905
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
reported as saying that the Labour Government expected to have a decision in about 6
months. He was a bit wiff-waffy on that. After nearly 3 years, the Labour Government
produced a green paper, which later became a white paper, which was dealt with for 12
months by its caucus football team, and then put to a committee of officials. The member for
Timaru now has the cheek to criticise the present Minister for not making a decision earlier.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: There's no need for that sort of talk.
Mr LATTER: There is a need when the member for Timaru starts it, as he has done on
more than one occasion.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Personal attack is terrible.
Mr LATTER: There is no personal attack at all, but if the member wants to stir me up to
get on to the subject of the member for Timaru I do not mind, because he has spoken a lot of
nonsense that needs to be refuted. The only way to do that is to look at what the member for
Timaru said previously.
Tonight, he said that coastal shipping was being ruined. I suggest to any student of
parliamentary history that he take the time to look at Hansard, Volume 400, at page 3711,
where he will see the answer of the Labour Minister of Transport to a question from the
member for Franklin, who asked how coastal shipping was getting along because of the
stupid freeze imposed on rail charges by the Labour Government. The member for Timaru
said that this rail-road stabilisation had tended to disturb the inter-modal balance in
transport. It disturbed it all right—it just about ruined our coastal shipping. That is the sort
of mismanagement of transport that went on during the Labour Government's 3 years. That
Government did not even come up to the starting line; it had many years, but it did nothing.
The National Government is bringing in the first big change in transport since 1935-38. How
many people on the other side have bothered to look at the situation in 1938? I have, and I
have here statements made by Hon. R. Semple. How many people realise that when the first
Labour Government came into office in 1935 it brought the Railways back under a general
manager and a Minister? Many do not realise that it had been under a Railways Board. The
railways did not pay in those days, and they do not pay now.
Mr Courtney: From Blenheim to Christchurch.
Mr LATTER: I will not be distracted by the member for Nelson. He has not got a
railway, but he has had a darn good deal from the Government over the years. He has a
notional railway, and personally I hope it stays there, but I would not mention it too much.
The policy adopted by the first Labour Government-the only other really big change in
transport-was exactly what we are aiming for, only the Labour Government was running up
the wrong side of the road. It said it wanted co-ordination, which is what we want and are
determined to have. But the first Labour Government's co-ordination was beautiful-it
depended on the Government's buying up the private operators, who were forced to sell,
and compensating them for it. If members refer to Hansard, Volume 253, they will find that
Hon. R. Semple stated in the House, "We have achieved total co-ordination on Banks
Peninsula. We have bought all the private operators out. We have total co-ordination of bus
services south of Timaru in the South Island." He talked about the compensation that was
being paid to 52 private operators. That is one way to get co-ordination between road and
rail, but it is not the right way; the way it is being done now is the first major change in the
last 40 years. It sets the scenario for the years ahead.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Marmalade.
Mr LATTER: I would not say it is marmalade, I would say it is pretty good butter.
Obviously, the long-term aim of anybody interested in transport in New Zealand is to obtain
the most economical use of total transport, including railways and other means. It means co-
ordination and a common economic base. The Budget package on transport creates some
relativity among the modes of transport, and the aim is to restructure road taxation as an
instrument of transport policy. It is high time that that was done.
I should like to show what the package does not do, because there has been a lot of
stupid talk about what it will do in the energy field by cluttering the roads. In no way does it
increase the tax burden on the transport industry as a whole, it simply redistributes it. As the
new system is phased in-and if the member for Timaru bothers to study it, he will see that
the reduction in sales tax is not instantaneous, but will be phased in over 3 years—the
existing measures will be phased down or out. Secondly, it does not make a radical change
overnight. We did not find, the day after the Budget, that transport firms were applying for
import licences. They will not get them as quickly as that; it is not an instantaneous change.
The sales tax will be reduced progressively for 3 years from 1 April next year; there is
nothing instantaneous about it. Transport will not suddenly chop the roads, it will not
12-Vol. 412


## p. 1906 (#362) ###########################################

1906
3 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
suddenly cause traffic jams or an increase in the road toll. All of those have been highlighted
as the sorts of things that will happen.
The next thing it certainly does not do is spell the end of the Railways. In fact, after a
period of adjustment of 3 years, it will ensure a brave new future for New Zealand Railways,
by pruning off some of the present dead wood—and there is a lot of it in the Marlborough
electorate, particularly in the North Canterbury portion. In that area a train runs 2 days a
week, sometimes with one wagon and sometimes with two, and chuffs its way, like the little
red puff-puff, towards a village called Waiau, but it does not quite get there. It does not carry
superphosphate, but it carries back wool, which the truck operators are not allowed to cart,
and of course it is passed by the stock trucks that carry the stock to Addington, but are not
allowed to carry anything back. That is the type of situation that I hope will fade out of
existence. I hope and believe, even though I am the member for the area, that that service
will be abolished, because I want to see efficiency in the Railways.
Let me now turn to what the Budget does do, and I shall continue talking happily about
what it does when the debate continues tomorrow. The Budget is decisive on transport. I am
very happy to serve my Minister. We have heard talk about a football team. That team might
have only three-and-a-half a side, but even that is half a seven-a-side team. The former
Labour Government had 3 years in office, and it had Ministers of Civil Aviation, Railways,
and Transport, and also an Under-Secretary, but in the end it was left to the whizz-kid to put
everything together and make up a green paper or a white paper.
Richard Walls: Who was that?
Mr LATTER: I shall not name him, because that would be rude, and the former Labour
Government probably had more than one whizz-kid. However, at the end of its 3 years in
office nothing decisive had been done. This Budget has done something decisive. While we
are talking about football teams, I emphasise that there is a bit of a team on this side of the
House. It is a caucus team that serves the Minister of Transport. All its members are very
happy to serve him, but he acts as the captain and makes the decisions. Our caucus transport
team comprises members representing every part of New Zealand. First, there is the
member for Hobson, and then there is the member for Manurewa, representing the
Auckland area. The member for Taupo represents the central North Island, and other
members of the team are the member for Wairarapa, the member for Pahiatua, the member
for Palmerston North, the member for Western Hutt, the member for Marlborough, the
member for Lyttelton, the member for Otago Central, and the member for Dunedin North.
The team members have been deliberately selected so that they can give the Minister
information on the various troubles and needs of transport throughout New Zealand.
We are very happy to serve the Minister, who has taken a tremendous amount of flak
from people making ill-judged comments. I think particularly of those made by the member
for Sydenham in his closing speech at the SIPA conference in Nelson. The Labour
Government set up no such committee, and gave very little attention to the problems in
transport. I emphasise that all members of the transport caucus team are very happy to serve
the Minister of Transport, in the knowledge that he is putting the transport system on a
sensible footing, which will enable the whole industry to move ahead.
That is one decisive action which will put roading finance on an assured basis. It will
ensure that each type of vehicle is taxed according to the costs it imposes on the roading
system. At present, light trucks are taxed far too heavily, and many operators of trucks
under 3 tonnes in weight will be pleased to pay less in future. Other trucks, with heavy
axles, will be travelling longer distances, and their operators will be paying more, as they
should. This action enables the establishment of price relativity, based on good economics,
between road and rail. It gives a financial incentive to all road operators to economise. It
allows for extra growth in the transport field to be absorbed by more than the one mode of
travel-rail. It lowers the problems of enforcement in the Ministry of Transport. It still
preserves the right of rail within 40 miles, and avoids wastage of New Zealand's transport
resources. When this debate resumes tomorrow, I shall be pleased to talk about what this
Budget does for my electorate. It is a good Budget.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 1907 (#363) ###########################################

4 August
1907
Student Demonstration
THURSDAY, 4 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
STUDENT DEMONSTRATION
Mr SPEAKER: I should like to make a few brief interim comments on yesterday's
demonstration and associated matters. First, as I indicated before, I gave no instructions
whatever regarding yesterday's demonstration; therefore the suggestion that I said there was
to be only one speaker, the suggestion published elsewhere that I said there should be only
two speakers, and the suggestion, also published, that I put a gag on a member of the House
desiring to speak, are all equally mistaken and totally incorrect. Secondly, as I indicated, I
had no prior knowledge of the demonstration except for reading the newspaper item that
said that no permit had been obtained from the city council for a march through the streets.
Thirdly, I can fully understand the concern of the member of the House who states that he
was precluded from speaking. Fourthly, I have discussed the sequence of events with senior
members of my staff, who assure me that when approached by the police about a projected
demonstration they gave no instructions whatever about the number of speakers. Finally,
the incident does seem to me to call for further investigation, but this morning's caucus of
both parties, and tomorrow's unhappy sitting hours, will preclude me from getting very far
before next week.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I raise the point
because, as you and your officers would know, I and one of my colleagues had intimated our
intention to proceed with two notices of motion about the matter on which you have made
your statement. Your explanation has been well received by the Opposition, and we
appreciate your position. You pointed out that perhaps the matter justified further investiga-
tion. I have risen to a point of order to intimate to the staff that it is not my intention to
proceed with the notice of motion and also, if I could, to obtain from you some guidance as
to the manner in which further inquiries could be made into yesterday's incident.
Mr SPEAKER: This is scarcely a point of order in the ordinary sense, but I feel it is a
bona fide inquiry and, although I do not want to spend the time of the House-we spent
almost half an hour on it yesterday—by going into detail, I shall simply say that I have in
mind to seek a conversation with the member who was apparently precluded from speaking.
I also have in mind to discuss the matter with the Minister of Police, and to obtain such
details as I can about the sequence of events and the conversations with the staff and the
member concerned. I want to get the facts and to preclude any mistake in the future. I also
hope that I shall not be charged with gagging someone, when I did not even know what was
going on. The position arose partly, in the first place, because the people concerned did not
follow the proper procedure of seeking permission either from the city council to march
through the streets or from the Speaker to bring a demonstration into our grounds.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): I appreciate your comment, Mr Speaker, and
wonder whether, after having had the discussions with the member for Hutt and the Minister
of Police and those others whom you may well see fit to talk to, you would be prepared to
report back to the House? The matter is of concern not only to the individual member or to
the Minister but to all members. I respectfully request that you give that favourable
consideration.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I have not the slightest doubt that if you
make this investigation, Mr Speaker, you will find that the matter can be clarified. I draw
your attention to a letter from the police officer concerned, which the Minister of Police
handed to me last evening and which sets out in careful detail the whole affair. If that letter is
in my office it would be made available to you, and if it is in the office of the Minister of
Police I am sure he would make it available to you. You will find that it clarifies the whole
affair, which was, in fact, a simple misunderstanding.
Mr SPEAKER: I want to make neither too much nor too little of the matter. I am
grateful for any assistance, and certainly I shall make further mention of the matter in due
course.
12°


## p. 1908 (#364) ###########################################

1908
4 August
Oral Answers to Questions
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Education-Standard Tertiary Bursaries
1. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Can he explain how
he arrived at the figure of $2 per week for the increase in the standard tertiary bursary and if
any weightings were used, in view of the fact that hostel fees for 1978 in Dunedin are to rise
to $38 per week?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The member will be aware that it is the
Government's policy to reform the tertiary bursary. It had a number of options available to it
to improve bursary conditions arising from the bursary conference held in December 1976.
The decision was taken to increase the basic rate of the bursary, so that some benefit would
accrue to all students rather than to make significant improvements in more specialised
areas. No weightings were used, but I point out to the member that the $2 per week
represents an increase of 8 percent on the unabated bursary and 15.4 percent on the abated
bursary.
Mr Marshall: Is the Minister prepared to listen to further representations with a view to
raising the level of the bursary higher than an increase of $2 a week from the beginning of the
next university and polytechnic year?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The member should understand that it was stated very clearly in
our policy that we would introduce a reformed bursary, that the bursary would be increased
to take costs into account, and that it would be adjusted annually. At this point the
negotiations on the reformed bursary are not completed, but as an interim measure, which I
said might be necessary, I undertook last year to increase the standard tertiary bursary
somewhat. That we have done, in addition to removing almost every anomaly left as a result
of the former Labour Government's rather hasty and ill-judged attempts to set up the
standard tertiary bursary.
Dr Shearer: Can the Minister confirm that it has never been the Government's intention
to increase the bursary to the level of the unemployment benefit?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Yes, that has never been the Government's intention.
Mr Marshall: Is the Minister likely to consider the possibility of indexation of the
bursaries, so that the students can be sure that every year they will receive an increase
according to the increase in the cost of living?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: No, that is not the Government's intention. I hope that it is also
not the intention of the Labour Party in any future policy, because if it implemented such a
scheme it might find itself in difficulty. I envisage that the increase will be in line with our
policy. In other words, the increases, which will be made annually, will take into account
increased costs. If we are able to restrain inflation very considerably at some stage in the
future-to, say, about 1 or 2 percent-it may well be that the Government of the day will
decide to give a greater increase than the 1 or 2 percent, which would be seen by many
people to be derisory.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Massey and Ranui Primary Schools
2. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Education: What relief is
planned for the overcrowded primary schools in the Massey and Ranui areas?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): A new intermediate school is planned at
Massey, and new primary schools are planned at Colwill Road and Don Buck Road to bring
relief to primary schools in the Massey area. A new primary school is to be constructed at
Glen Road to relieve the Ranui Primary School.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Does the Minister have any information on the present rolls of the
schools in the Massey and Ranui areas?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I have the present rolls of four of the schools in the area. Ranui
has a roll of 457, Royal Road a roll of 581, Massey a roll of 577, and Lincoln Heights a roll of
600. I am sure all members will agree that the rolls of all those schools are considerably
higher than normal throughout the country and that some relief must be provided very
shortly.
Mr Hunt: Has there been any slow-down of development in the area that might lead one
to suspect that the overcrowding is not now the problem it would have been if the same level
of building construction carried out during the years 1972 to 1975 had been maintained?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I do not have any information on that point and cannot answer


## p. 1909 (#365) ###########################################

4 August
1909
Oral Answers to Questions
the question. However, I shall be happy to do so if the member cares to submit a further
question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Immigrants from South Africa and Japan
3. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): asked the Minister of Immigration: Could he confirm that
the Government is considering expanding recruitment of immigrants to New Zealand and
that South Africa and Japan would become primary areas for such recruitment, as reported
in the Evening Post on 27 July 1977?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration): The Government is not considering
expanding the recruitment of immigrants, and there is no intention that South Africa or
Japan will become primary sources of immigrants.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Employment Levels
4. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) to ask the Minister of State Services: What have the
employment levels been in the public sector, local bodies, Government corporations, and
others respectively over the past 3 years, expressed as a percentage of the total work force?
In view of the length of the reply that I understand the Minister intends to make to this
question, I seek the leave of the House to have the question transferred to Questions for
Written Answer.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sure it is the pleasure of the House that this course be followed. As
there appears to be no objection, it will be treated as a question for written answer.
Regional Resources Surveys
5. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
Can he give the expected date for the completion of the regional resources surveys that were
promised 20 months ago in the National Party's election manifesto, but which he was still
calling for the completion of in May this year, and can he give his assurance that when the
findings of these resources surveys come to hand he will make the findings public?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development): Of the 11 regional development
councils, 3 have already completed surveys of the resources and basic development potential
of their regions. Of the remaining councils, all are actively working on surveys of this type,
and these can be expected to come to hand over the next few months. The member for
Dunedin Central may be assured that he can freely obtain and use the information contained
in any regional resource survey as it comes to hand, as many hundreds of people active in
regional development have already used those surveys so far published.
Mr MacDonell: When all the surveys are completed will the Minister extend the regional
development scheme to ensure that the regional development councils fully exploit the
resources?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The regional surveys are designed for use not only by councils but
also by the private sector and by the Government. From the three surveys we now have to
hand, we have found that there has been a realisation by the people in the areas that
resources were there that they did not know existed or that they did not know the full
measure of those resources. I have no reason to suppose that those who have invested much
time and effort in producing the resources surveys will not be well rewarded by the interest
they will generate.
Mr Talbot: Is the Minister aware that the regional resources surveys completed and
published by the Southern Canterbury Regional Development Council have been of great
benefit to that important region, and that they are being used by various sectors of industry
in a very useful way?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I can confirm that. The honourable member will appreciate that his
own area of South Canterbury was the first one to complete a resources survey. In this sense
it was a test run, and I believe the people in the area were pleased at the way the
departments took the survey very seriously. It certainly assisted in our regional development
work.
Richard Walls: Would the Minister agree that, by asking the regional development


## p. 1910 (#366) ###########################################

1910
4 August
Oral Answers to Questions
councils to undertake these surveys, one of the valuable end products was the involvement of
many people at local level, who discovered the resources for themselves and identified the
priorities needed?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: That is certainly true. It has also established a very useful link
between some of the Government departments most directly concerned in the regions and
regional development councils in their activities.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Auckland Museum of Transport and Technology-Relief Workers
6. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Labour: Are any special relief
workers being employed at the Western Springs Museum of Transport and Technology, and,
if so, what type of work is being undertaken by them?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): As at 29 July 1977, 113 workers were
employed at the Museum of Transport and Technology, Western Springs, Auckland, under
the special work scheme. Generally, these workers are clearing the grounds for future
displays. One particular job, preparatory work for a tram track, is a special project being
undertaken by a trust group which aims at rehabilitating young people with unstable work
histories; 32 young men and 4 young women were engaged on this special project. The
Government recognises the value of this and other similar groups throughout the country,
and I recently announced an extension of the special work scheme to encourage local
authorities and community organisations to provide productive work for these work rehabili-
tation groups.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Superannuation-Hospital Patients
7. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is any reduction
made to those on national superannuation who have been patients in hospital for 6 months
or more, and, if so, what is the reduction?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare. There is no reduction in national superannuation because of
hospitalisation unless the patient is unmarried and has no dependants. In those cases where a
reduction is applied, the provisions of section 75(2) of the Social Security Act provide for a
reduction after 13 weeks in a public hospital. The amount of national superannuation which
would be paid in these circumstances depends on the individual situation of each case, taking
into account the superannuitant's income, family responsibilities, and capacity to appreciate
the payments.
Mr Marshall: Would the Minister deny that a further reduction is negotiated on such
payments after 6 months' hospitalisation and that this, in some cases, comes down to $4.50 a
week?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I have the information here, and I do not deny that.
Where one spouse is a patient in hospital, the rate of benefit is not decreased. If both parties
of a married couple are in hospital, the rate of benefit is reduced after 13 weeks following the
date of admission to hospital of the last admitted party. In the case of an unmarried person,
without dependants, the rate of benefit is reduced after 13 weeks' hospitalisation. After the
twenty-sixth week there is a review, and, at that point, the amount of benefit is decided,
having regard to the individual case. It does not go below $4.50 a week. In many cases,
having regard to dependants and commitments, it could be a great deal higher.
Mr Bell: Do these restrictions or reductions differ in any way from the provisions that
applied to age beneficiaries prior to the introduction of national superannuation?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: This is a fairly complex issue but, as far as I know,
the answer is that there is no difference. The policy of successive Governments has been to
reduce the rate of social security benefit where a person without dependants is maintained at
the expense of the State in a public hospital. It costs $100 a week to maintain a person in this
way.
Mr Marshall: Will the Minister confirm that one of the extra burdens now placed on
social workers is the requirement to visit patients who have been in hospital for 26 weeks or
more with a view to a possible further reduction in national superannuation payments?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I understand that that has been the position over the
years. Knowing social workers as I do, from the period I was Minister of Social Welfare and


## p. 1911 (#367) ###########################################

4 August
1911
Oral Answers to Questions
as a member of Parliament, I would not think that they would regard such interviews as a
burden.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Sheep Returns-Statistics for East Coast
8. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Has he seen table C on page
8 of the report on sheep returns as at 30 June 1976, in which sheep population in the East
Coast region is quoted at 2 544 882 head, and, if so, can he advise the comparable numbers
as at 30 June 1974 and 30 June 1975 and express the variations as a percentage of each
preceding year?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Agricul-
ture. The sheep population in the East Coast region decreased by 2.4 percent in 1975, but
recovered markedly in 1976, and, at 2 544 882, was up by 4.3 percent on the 1975 total and
was 1.8 percent higher than the total in 1974. The statistical details are: in 1974, 2 500 521; in
1975, 2 439 471, or a decrease of 2.4 percent; and, in 1976, 2 544 882, an increase of 4.3
percent on 1975 and 1.8 percent on 1974.
Mr Bell: Is it reasonable to assume that that reduction in sheep numbers in the East
Coast region for 1975 was a direct result of the dollar-a-head subsidy on lambs killed,
instituted by the last Labour Government?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I think the reduction would be the result of that and of a number of
other matters related to the previous Government's agricultural policy, which tended to
undermine the confidence of farmers.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Can the Minister supply statistics of the fall in beef cattle numbers
over the same period?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: That supplementary question bears no relation to the original
question. I do not have the figures with me, but the member is quite free to put in another
question, if he so desires.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Family Affairs Cabinet Committee
9. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Does the Cabinet
Committee on Family Affairs have a watching brief on the censorship functions or duties of
such bodies as the Indecent Publications Tribunal, the Supreme Court, and the Department
of Education, and, if so, what are the committee's responsibilities?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Social Welfare. The Cabinet committee does not see itself as having a watching brief on the
censorship functions or duties of such bodies as those mentioned by the honourable member.
It does, however, see itself as having a watching brief over legislation affecting the quality of
family life. It also has a responsibility, when the public expresses deep concern about a
matter, to look carefully at that matter in order to ascertain whether any measures are
required to safeguard the interests of family life. If the committee concludes that there are
deficiencies in the law, it will make proposals for change.
Mr Marshall: If the Cabinet committee considered that the decision made by one of
those bodies was contrary to the terms of reference of the Cabinet Committee on Family
Affairs, would the change be made through legislation rather than by overruling a decision?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: The Cabinet Committee on Family Affairs has no power to
overrule any decision of the Supreme Court or of the Indecent Publications Tribunal.
Certainly where there is widespread public concern, as there has been recently, as the
member would know, over the distribution of a book called Down Under the Plum Trees, the
committee does take that into consideration as to the adequacy of the law and what should
be done about it.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State Insurance Office-Prosecutions for Theft
10. Mr FENTON (Hastings), on behalf of Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata), asked the
Minister in Charge of the State Insurance Office: Were any prosecutions commenced by the
State Insurance Office for theft in the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March 1977, and, if so, how


## p. 1912 (#368) ###########################################

1912
4 August
Oral Answers to Questions
successful were they?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): I reply on behalf of
the Minister in Charge of the State Insurance Office. In the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March
1977 one prosecution for theft by an employee was commenced by the State Insurance
Office. The amount involved was $6,500, of which $2,000 was recovered. The offender was
dismissed from his employment and received a 9 months' prison sentence.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Would the Minister confirm that in reply to a similar question
addressed to one of his colleagues last week the member for Waitemata was informed that
State departments do not initiate prosecutions for theft and that that is the function of the
Police?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I am unaware of that. I am not in a position to
confirm or deny it.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Waitemata Electric Power Board-Consumer Difficulties
11. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Electricity: Has he any information
which reflects the difficulties that face electricity users, particularly household consumers in
the Waitemata Electric Power Board's area?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity): There is little that can be added to the reply I
gave to the honourable member on the same subject on 23 June. The Waitemata Electric
Power Board has had no increase in the number of disconnections for non-payment of
accounts. Because the board was concerned at the possible effect of the increases on the 2-
monthly bills for domestic consumers, members of the Waitemata Electric Power Board
have called for a report on the cost of monthly billing using an assessed consumption for
intermediate accounts. It was thought that monthly accounts could assist families with
budgeting. That report is likely to be considered at the next meeting of the Waitemata
Electric Power Board.
Mr Hunt: Since the Minister has stated that the Waitemata Electric Power Board is
considering sending out monthly accounts instead of accounts every 8 weeks, would he now
concede that the total amount that will be collected in 1 month will equal what would
formerly have been collected from an 8-weekly account?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The honourable member quite clearly seeks to misconstrue the
situation. The implication in the honourable member's question is that the previous charge-
and I freely admit that 2 years ago it was considerably lower than it is today-was the
necessary payment for the provision of electricity, whereas it was not. In 2 of the 3 years in
which the previous Labour Government held electricity charges down quite artificially and
unrealistically, the tax payer had to meet the deficit brought about through the inadequate
payments asked of the consumers.
Mr Hunt: Is it not a fact that when this occurred it simply meant that those who could
least afford to pay were helped, and that those who could afford to pay more paid a little
more income tax instead?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The situation which the honourable member is seeking to defend
produced the absurd situation in which the taxpayer on one hand was subsidising the price of
electricity to the consumer and on the other was being asked to encourage conservation and
to finance the cost of a conservation programme, whereas under the present arrangement
there has been an element of reality or realism in the handling of energy matters, and the
voluntary savings being achieved in electricity now are above the guideline targets which we
set.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is it not a fact that in the past the low income earner was subsidising
the excessive consumption of the wasteful user of electricity, people who owned swimming
pools, for example?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: It is a fact that when electricity charges are not charged in such a way
that they cover the costs of producing electricity, then someone else must pay. This
Government believes that the user should pay, and in fact the user is paying today. The
taxpayer is no longer paying the cost of providing electricity.
Mr Hunt: In view of the Minister's comment that a conservation programme has been
undertaken, why is as much electricity used now per head of population by consumers of the
Waitemata Electric Power Board as was being used in 1975 when, the Minister said, the
price was artificially low, and how does that affect his definition of a realistic policy?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: The rate of increase in electricity consumption has declined


## p. 1913 (#369) ###########################################

4 August
1913
Oral Answers to Questions
appreciably.
Mr Hunt: The decline started in 1974.
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I am sure the honourable member appreciates that it is not possible
for the State to provide electricity unless the cost of providing it is met.
Mr Hunt: By the taxpayer.
Hon. G. F. GAIR: This Government does not propose that the taxpayer should be asked
to provide it. Instead it believes that the user should be asked to provide it.
Mr Comber: Can the Minister confirm that a clear indication was given in the 1975
Budget presented by the last Labour Government that it would have reviewed charges at the
end of that year, which would have included a review of electricity charges?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: That is certainly true. A number of costs would have gone up, and
that was freely admitted by several Labour Cabinet Ministers prior to the last election. The
increases would have included not only electricity but also milk.
Hon. F. M. Colman: The Minister has argued that the user should pay the true cost of
electricity. If that is the case, when can the taxpayer, whom he alleges was paying before,
expect some relief?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: In this year's Budget the taxpayer is not being asked to pay the
consumers' electricity costs.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Health Department-Staff Changes at Wiri Office
12. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Health: What staffing
changes have been authorised at the Wiri district office in the past 12 months, in view of the
rapidly growing population of South Auckland?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The following positions have been established in
the South Auckland district over the last 12 months, and I will also give the current position.
The position for a deputy medical officer of health has been filled; for a supervising public
health nurse the position is under advertisement; for nine public health nurses-four have
been filled and the remainder are under advertisement; for two health assistants, one is filled
and the remaining position is under advertisement; for a health inspector the position has
been filled, for a health education officer the position has been filled, and for an assistant
advisory officer, the position has been filled.
Mr Wellington: Is the increased complement of public health nurses available to visit
schools in that area to carry out, among other things, immunisation programmes, which are
an important part of the Government's policy of taking health care into the community?
Hon. T. F. GILL: They are available in the community to cope with that problem in
schools and also with other problems with children over the age of 2 years. For the South
Auckland area as a trial, and because we think that is an area along with others where the
need is more pressing, we are having discussions with the Plunket Society in the expectation
that plunket nurses might take over caring for children not only until the age of 2 years but
through until they are 5 years old. This would free public health nurses, who would be able
to spend more time concentrating on the school age group, and would avoid duplication of
visits by two different types of nurses to the same houses. Generally, we think it will be more
efficient. I cannot commit the Plunket Society at present. We are negotiating with it, and the
negotiations seem to be going very well.
Mr Hunt: How many schools have been visited by how many nurses as a result of the
extension of this service?
Hon. T. F. GILL: That question is in no way in elucidation of the original question and
answer. I would be happy to answer the member, but it is so far away from the original
question that I do not have the necessary statistics on how many schools have been visited by
how many people. Perhaps the honourable member would put down another question.
Mr Wellington: What has been the Plunket Society's response to the Government's
invitation to become involved in the community health programme the Minister has
outlined?
Hon. T. F. GILL: The response has been very good. The president and the director of
the Plunket Society have met with myself and my officers on a number of occasions over the
past 3 months. Those discussions have been amicable, but until the Dominion Council of the
Plunket Society has reached a decision I cannot give any further information.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1914 (#370) ###########################################

1914
4 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Bookmaking
13. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Justice: Does he intend
to take any action on the comments of Mr D. J. Sullivan, S. M., reported in the Dominion of
29 July, that "the foundations of society would not be shattered" if the offence of
bookmaking was "decriminalised" and particularly if the mandatory penalty of imprison-
ment for a second conviction were abolished?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): Although the question asked by the
honourable member is more properly one for my colleague the Minister of Internal Affairs, I
should at least point out that the magistrate's remarks referred not to the offence of
bookmaking, but to the offences of participating in an unlawful game of chance. The
Government is soon to introduce a Gaming Bill, and when that is prepared I am certain that
the Minister of Internal Affairs will cover the general point raised in the question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Transport Department-Prosecutions for Theft
14. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Transport: Were any
prosecutions commenced by the Ministry of Transport for theft in the period 1 April 1976 to
31 March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): I am informed that there were 13
thefts of stores and cash from the Ministry of Transport during the 1976-77 year. In line with
customary practice, these cases were handed over to the police to enable inquiries to be
made. Of the 13 thefts, successful prosecutions have been taken in 2 cases. In the remaining
cases inquiries are either continuing, or have failed to locate the offender or the missing
property.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Chiropody Benefit
15. Mr HUNT (New Lynn), on behalf of Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay), asked the Minister
of Health: Can he confirm that the Department of Health is working on the Government's
election promise to introduce a benefit scheme for free chiropody for the elderly, and, if so,
is it intended to make the scheme hospital-based?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I can confirm that in the near future it is intended
to introduce some form of chiropody service supported by Government finance. This was
announced in my Budget speech last night. The form it will take and who will qualify have
yet to be determined, but the matter will first have to be discussed with representatives of the
chiropodists.
Mr Hunt: Can we take it from the Minister's reply and from the comments made in his
speech last night, that this is one instance where the user will not be expected to pay the full
costs?
Hon. T. F. GILL: If the member would care to quote the exact comment I made last
night, I will endeavour to answer the question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Otago Education Board-Transport Costs
16. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Education: What was the total
cost of providing transport and conveyance in the Otago Education Board area for the year
ended 31 January 1977?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The total cost of providing transport
and conveyance in the Otago Education Board area for the year ended 31 January 1977 was
$670,000.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Tourist Accommodation in Auckland and Christchurch
17. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Tourism: What steps has he taken to
alleviate the accommodation shortage in Auckland, and what plans are being made by him
I


## p. 1915 (#371) ###########################################

4 August
1915
Oral Answers to Questions
to provide enough tourists to satisfy the oversupply of accommodation in Christchurch?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism): The need for additional hotel rooms in
Auckland is recognised. Some projects are currently being planned, and some may require
Government assistance. Acceptable projects will receive sympathetic consideration in terms
of the tourist accommodation development scheme. Leading Christchurch hotels did experi-
ence a reduction in occupancy from 72.4 percent in 1974-75 to 66.6 percent in 1975-76 largely
due to an increase from 753 to 1131 rooms. Such a large increase in available rooms will take
some time to be absorbed by increased demand. Christchurch is a main point of visitor entry,
and must, therefore, benefit from the additional promotional activity that the Tourist and
Publicity Department, international airlines, and tour operators are undertaking.
Mr Kirk: Would the Minister support a move to have international flights that do not
land at Christchurch at the moment rerouted to that airport?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: The points of entry of international flights are a matter for the
airlines concerned, but I feel that Christchurch is adequately catered for by the international
carriers.
Mr Kirk: What accommodation projects are at present being considered for Auckland?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: These are being negotiated with the department, and are
confidential at the moment.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Marriage Guidance Councils
18. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Justice: What increased grants
does he propose to make to the work of marriage guidance councils in view of the findings
and recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): Although the annual grant to the
National Marriage Guidance Council has been increased substantially again this year, there
has been no increase on the basis of the recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit
Review Committee. Total Government funding of the National Marriage Guidance Council
was $219,000 for the year 1976-77, and for the year 1977-78 this has been increased to
$290,000. The additional grant is to cover some extension work, and to provide for
additional training courses for marriage counsellors.
Mr Marshall: Is there a possibility that a grant for the work recommended by the
committee might appear in the supplementary estimates, or will it have to wait until next
year's estimates?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: No, but it would not be in my estimates. If I could explain;
the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee recommended that marriage counselling
should take place at the time of the initial application for a benefit. For some years,
counsellors have been involved in court conciliation at a much later stage. Discusssions have
recently taken place between the Department of Social Welfare and the director of the
National Marriage Guidance Council, for whom I am responsible, with a view to using the
council to undertake marriage counselling at an earlier stage. It has been agreed that pilot
studies will be undertaken in Auckland, Hamilton, Christchurch, Dunedin, and Invercargill
to see whether it is feasible for counselling to be undertaken at that point. Payment for this
marriage counselling will be on a fees for service basis, and will be paid by the Department of
Social Welfare. If the pilot studies prove successful marriage guidance counsellors could be
employed throughout the country by the Department of Social Welfare to do this work, with
a consequent reduction in the amount of court conciliation necessary.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Rural Water Supply Schemes
19. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Works and Development: How
many rural water supply schemes are in existence in New Zealand; how many schemes have
been completed since the election of the present Government; and how many schemes have
been planned and remain in the pipeline awaiting approval?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): There are 31 rural water
supply schemes that have been completed with Government assistance since the late 1940s.
Most of these schemes are in Otago and Canterbury. Three schemes have been completed
since the present Government took office, and a further 34 schemes are under construction.
Many of these are already supplying water to farms and they are well spread throughout New


## p. 1916 (#372) ###########################################

1916
4 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Zealand. Eight new rural water supply schemes have been approved during the term of the
present Government, and a further 11 are programmed for approval and commencement
this financial year. Of the 11, 7 are in Otago and Southland. A further 49 proposed schemes
are at various stages of planning and investigation, and 11 of these are in Otago and
Southland.
Mr Cooper: Can the Minister confirm that there has been a greater number of starts of
rural water schemes this year than at any time since rural water schemes have been under
way in New Zealand?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that fact. From my answer the member will know
that in the Government's 20 months in office 19 schemes have been approved or are about to
be approved.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Is the South Otago scheme one of the schemes that has been
approved?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I am not in a position to say which schemes are about to be
approved. I shall answer that question if the honourable member lays down another
question.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Will the Minister confirm that the three schemes completed
during the Government's term in office were authorised by the Labour Government, and
that the schemes now being approved will be approved under the terms of the improved
policy arrangement introduced by the Labour Government?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that the three schemes that have been completed
were initiated by the Labour Government. The fact that only three have been completed in
the last 20 months indicates the limited attitude of the Labour Government towards these
schemes.
Mr Latter: Is it true that the massive Waiau plains irrigation scheme, which has just
been approved, is under a new scheme where the on-farm costs will be met to the extent of
50 percent and not 33.3 percent as under the previous Administration?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that the Waiau scheme, which has just been
approved, is under the new scheme, and I also confirm that it was considered by the last
Labour Government and not proceeded with.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Will the Minister confirm that the Waiau scheme was approved
in principle by the Labour Government, and will he also confirm that the impetus to rural
water supply schemes resulted from the improved policy introduced by the Labour Govern-
ment?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: The Labour Government had many principles concerning rural
water supply schemes, but it did not go on with them. The National Government has gone
forward with particular schemes.
WILLS AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Wills Amendment Bill
be introduced. The main purpose of the Bill is to give effect to the recommendation of the
Property Law and Equity Reform Committee in its 1973 report entitled, "The Effect of
Divorce on Testate Succession". At present there is a legal presumption that a subsequent
divorce does not necessarily affect a testator's testamentary intentions unless he or she
expressly says so by altering or revoking his or her will. The committee has recommended
that this presumption be reversed and replaced by the presumption that a divorced spouse
would not intend his former spouse to share in his testamentary bounty. Under the present
law unintended windfalls can go to a divorced spouse because of a testator's inadvertence.
Thus a gift to a person described in a will as "my wife" or "my husband" will take effect in
the absence of revocation or alteration to the will, even though there has been a subsequent
divorce and the parties have been so divorced for many years.
The Bill applies only to final decrees of divorce, dissolution, and nullity which are in
force, and has the effect of striking out any reference to the former spouse, with exceptions,
without striking down the whole will. This is brought about by providing that the will should
be read and take effect as if the other party died immediately before the person making the
will. As mentioned, there are exceptions to the operation of the presumption, and the Bill
expressly excepts a will that is worded to give effect to its provisions notwithstanding a
subsequent divorce. Likewise, a will made after any final decree is also excepted. In
addition, the Bill contains an amendment to section 15 of the Wills Act 1937 about the
avoidance of gifts to attesting witnesses together with a consequential amendment to section


## p. 1917 (#373) ###########################################

4 August
1917
Wills Amendment Bill
7 of the Wills Amendment Act 1955 relating to the age of testamentary capacity. While the
Bill reverses what was previously a well settled presumption of English law and is therefore a
novel reform, it is one that I believe will find general approval. I propose to ask the House to
refer the Bill to the Statutes Revision Committee for study.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I do not propose to launch into a lengthy oration
at this stage. The law of wills is highly technical-perhaps over-technical—and the effect of
this seems to make it just a shade less technical than it is at present. As far as one can see at
first glance it is unobjectionable and indeed acceptable in many respects.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: There speaks the technician.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: That is right. As the Bill is to be referred to the Statutes
Revision Committee it can be studied there and discussed later on in the reporting back.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Wills Amendment Bill
be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee, and that the proceedings of the committee
during the hearing of evidence be open to accredited representatives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
QUEEN ELIZABETH THE SECOND NATIONAL TRUST BILL
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I move, That the Queen Elizabeth the Second
National Trust Bill be introduced. The Government's 1975 election manifesto policy
contained a national trust proposal to be introduced by statute. It stated that the primary
intention of such a trust would be to ensure that sufficient open space was provided for the
needs of New Zealanders. The Bill is the realisation of that promise. The proposed trust has
the added distinction of commemorating the silver jubilee of Her Majesty the Queen.
After the 1975 general election Federated Farmers made it known to the Government
that it was investigating the establishment of a heritage trust scheme. The trust was to be an
entirely voluntary scheme run by farmers for farmers. Its main object was to provide a
framework for representative landscape in private farm ownership to be preserved in
perpetuity. There would be no need to sell the land to the Crown for reserve purposes.
Obviously there was a similarity between the Government's scheme and that of the
Federated Farmers. There was no need for two bodies to be operating in similar areas, so I
discussed the matter with Federated Farmers. An agreement was reached to merge the
schemes.
Part I of the Bill establishes a board of 10 directors to manage the affairs of the trust.
Specific representation is provided for those organisations with a close and everyday interest
in land and the provision of open space. Those organisations are: the Counties Association,
the Municipal Association, Federated Farmers, and the Maori people. There is also
provision for 'members of the trust to be represented on the board. Different classes of
membership are established in clause 5, and the board will fix the membership fees.
Clause 9 deals with meetings of the board. Provision is made for six permanent heads of
Government departments to attend board meetings. The six departments listed are those
with an active and continuing interest in open space. It is considered that these departments
will be able to make a contribution to the success of the trust. It is the Government's desire
that the trust board be an independent body. Thus, the six permanent heads will have full
speaking rights but no vote. A standing executive committee is created in clause 10. The
function of the committee will be the administration of trust land, and in particular the
negotiation of open space covenants. As the land over which these covenants will be taken is
virtually all farm land, the two Federated Farmers directors on the board will be perma-
nently represented on this committee. The other clauses of Part I are of a general nature
relating to vacancies, the making of rules and bylaws, disclosure of interests, and so on.
Part II defines the functions and powers of the trust, and follows closely the National
Party's 1975 general election policy proposal. One change that has been made is to exclude
the Historic Places Trust from the direct ambit of the National Trust. The Historic Places
Trust operates nationally on a small scale, and is primarily concerned with the preservation
and restoration of buildings of historical, scientific, and architectural interest or value. The
trust has other functions in relation to archaeological sites and certain historic land sites.
However, the prime management aim of land of this type is preservation for historic
purposes, and this object takes it outside the wider scope of the National Trust. The National
Trust will be primarily concerned with landscape protection and public access to the
countryside at large. Nevertheless, there is link between the two trusts by the common


## p. 1918 (#374) ###########################################

1918
4 August
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
representation on both boards of the Director-General of Lands and the Secretary for
Internal Affairs.
The Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust will have investigative and recommen-
datory rather than regulatory functions. It will provide advice and assistance to Ministers,
departments, and other persons and bodies on the provision, protection, preservation,
enhancement, and use of open spaces. It will also develop and formulate its own policies in
this area, and encourage the acceptance and introduction of such policies. Provision is made
for the trust to encourage the co-ordination of activities of Government departments and
other persons and bodies that have responsibilities in that field. The trust will also have the
power to make grants for the development and provision of open space, and to acquire open
space in its own name.
A feature of the Bill is provision for the trust board to negotiate open space covenants.
This provision is the same as the conservation covenant provisions of the Reserves Bill. The
provision is carried over into this Bill because the Government considered there may be
landowners who would prefer to deal with an independent body such as the National Trust,
rather than with a Government department, as is the case under the Reserves Bill. The
covenants provision is a means by which particular landscape features can be protected
without the necessity for the trust actually to acquire the land in question. It will be a private
arrangement between the owner and the trust, for a specific period or in perpetuity, and a
consideration to the owner is negotiable. The covenants can be registered against the title to
the land.
Part III incorporates the financial provisions, and clause 23 establishes the trust fund.
Funds will be used for a variety of purposes, but mainly for acquiring or leasing land, for the
distribution of grants, consideration for open space covenants, and payments for access
agreements and easements. The existing law relating to tax deductions and gift duty will
apply. The Government made two important announcements about the trust in the Budget.
First, donations, gifts, and bequests of cash will attract a $2 for $1 Government subsidy. I
believe that this will assist the trust considerably with finance to meet its aims. Secondly,
where the whole of the estate or interest in land of a deceased person is vested in possession
in the trust, free of all encumbrances, that estate or interest will be free of estate duty. The
Government believes that this incentive will permit the trust to receive property that it
considers should be protected and maintained in its existing state for future generations.
Part IV includes the miscellaneous provisions, and relates to access and offences. It
should be noted that the public will enjoy freedom of access to trust land subject to bylaws
and any conditions that may be agreed between the trust and the owner of any specified area
of land that is subject to an open space covenant. When the Bill is referred to the Lands and
Agriculture Committee I shall move that the proceedings of the committee during the
hearing of evidence on the Bill be open to accredited representatives of the news media.
Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori): I am sure that members will agree with the general
principle of commemorating the silver jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. The select
committee may be the more appropriate place for the details of the proposal to be
dealt with. The Reserves Bill is a complementary measure, and it is important that the public
should understand with clarity what this Bill means. We have national parks, we have
reserves owned and run by the State, we have reserves run by local bodies, and now we have
a trust for the same purpose, which duplicates a host of important activities.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: Are you going to oppose the Bill?
Hon. M. RATA: What is the sense in the member's taking that attitude? I am merely
saying that here is a Bill establishing a trust that will have functions that already exist in law.
The Bill has yet to be debated, and I should like to know of any weaknesses in the Reserves
Bill, which was a complete overhaul of the Act governing reserve lands. There are other
provisions in the Town and Country Planning Act, and there are ordinances galore. A great
deal of concern about being zoned out of existence has been expressed by people living close
to areas that can be regarded as of public interest. I believe that we should undertake a
programme that will enable the public to understand clearly what all this means. With similar
measures incorporated in the Town and Country Planning Act and the reserves legislation
there is a certain amount of confusion. We have probably arrived at the stage where there
should be a complete assessment of land, and yet here is a new concept-a trust that can
provide for certain land to be set aside as an open space. The Minister will be the first to
acknowledge that in some parts of New Zealand open spaces, according to some people,
provide another excuse for depriving people of the land they are entitled to. The Bill
provides that the trust may negotiate, and I hope it is successful. However, I believe that all


## p. 1919 (#375) ###########################################

4 August
1919
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
the concern that has been expressed over the years should be considered so that the real
purport of the trust is clearly seen.
I remind the House that the Minister of Lands went to great lengths in castigating the
efforts of the third Labour Government in dealing with public reserves. I hope that he is
equally as successful as the last Labour Government was in this field. There is complemen-
tary legislation, an overhaul of the main Act, and an additional trust is now to be established.
People are beginning to wonder how much more land we have for the express purposes
provided for here and in other proposals. I will not comment on the format of the
membership, and so on. If the Minister can go straight to Federated Farmers and other
interested bodies, why is it not possible for him to go straight to a Maori group instead of
asking the Minister of Maori Affairs to nominate a member because of the land interest
involved? The Maoris have got to the stage where they can be dealt with directly, without the
need to consult the Minister of Maori Affairs, particularly when he is not in favour with the
Maori people generally.
Mr Comber: That's not true.
Mr Talbot: That's unfair.
Hon. M. RATA: Well, let us presume a situation where that exists, and I would not want
the Minister to get into a difficulty like that. I make the point that the Minister should take
that into account. If it is possible to consult Federated Farmers and local authorities directly,
it should be good enough to consult with the Maori directly if his land interests are so
affected. The Bill recognises Her Majesty's silver jubilee, but it has that difference of some
significance about it. I venture to suggest the actual tactical work yet to come may be
hindered unless a public programme is undertaken.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): I support most of what the Labour spokesman on
land, the member for Northern Maori, said about the Bill. No one would be opposed to
legislation that commemorated the silver jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II, but it
does not have to be this legislation. I strongly believe that, if we are to maintain open space,
if we are to get scenic easements in the best interests of the nation's environment, and if we
are to administer properly land given to the State by the farmers from time to time to protect
natural resources, and sometimes the native timbers that are in lots on their farms, it is best
done by the State. I am not saying that in a doctrinaire socialist way, but from the
fundamental experience I had as Minister of Lands.
Mr Allen: Are you not a socialist?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I am certainly not like the member for Tauranga, for which I
am very grateful. I have a different point of view, and being a socialist requires fundamental
good manners. Public money will be appropriated under the Bill. The Department of Lands
and Survey enjoys the confidence of every member of the House in doing a splendid job for
this country, and when we begin to fragment its influence-which is the influence of the
Government of the day-down into these different groups, whilst perhaps in a shop window
it looks like a variety of goods, in fact you are taking away from it the effective administra-
tion in the best interests of the people and the preservation of land that is not particularly
abundant and available.
Mr Talbot: What an incredible statement!
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: It is not an incredible statement. It is made by someone who
has had the opportunity to administer the department, which the member for South
Canterbury will never have. I know that the Bill is going to a committee, but I am not a
member of that committee. In the Bay of Islands, north of Waitangi, had it not been for the
dedicated officials in the Department of Lands and Survey we may well have had a beautiful
land development looking across to Russell-beautiful from the point of view of where you
live, but when you are there, looking at a historic spot, it would have looked as if it had
chicken pox. Again, we had another interest, which this trust could not control, wanting to
build a major motel behind Pompallier House. It is so important. I do not believe we can
escape our total responsibility for the protection of the environment—and I am talking now
about the scenic environment and the preservation of these incredibly beautiful places, not
great in number, but necessary to be protected. It must lie in the Department of Lands and
Survey, with the Government of the day having the basic responsibility. Undoubtedly the
members of the trust will be splendid people, but they have no control from this House; and
the House when dealing with land matters has to accept that final responsibility.
I do not know which Government can take the credit-probably both-but we enjoy a
Department of Lands and Survey that is bipartisan, very well equipped, very well informed,
and whose officials are invited round the world to repeat in other countries what they have


## p. 1920 (#376) ###########################################

1920
4 August
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
done here. There should be second thoughts about keeping it under the influence of the
Government of the day, and to give control to the Department of Lands and Survey is the
best way. In the long term we will get better covenants, better scenic easements, better
leases with both Maori people and others, and we will get a much better result than we would
by just adding another trust. I know that these comments will be considered by the
Department of Lands and Survey. The Bill's objective is beyond reproach, but the way we
go about it can make it either effective or just something pretty to look at.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I think I should answer the two previous
speakers, both of whom have served in the capacity of Minister of Lands or Acting Minister
of Lands. I cannot detect from their comments whether they are for or against the Bill. The
member for Northern Maori tried to take a sideways swipe at the Minister of Maori Affairs
in an unfair way. At least the member for Roskill indicated general opposition to the Bill's
principles-
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Not the principles; the technique.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG:-except for the aspect of the measure being a commemoration of
the silver jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II. Opposition members seem sure that
the only way to protect open space for the benefit of the people is through a Government
department—and I say no. I thank them for their comments about the ability and the
dedication of the members of the Department of Lands and Survey, but there are also
people in the Forest Service with the same sort of ability and dedication, as well as
individuals in the community. There is no particular reason why either the Department of
Lands and Survey, or the Forest Service, or those two departments jointly, should have the
sole answer or the sole solution to providing open space for this and future generations.
I remind Opposition members of the work done by the National Trust in Great Britain,
a slightly different organisation in that it is more independent of Government, but it is
protected in some of its activities by statute. That trust has done a tremendous job in a
country that is desperate to retain its open spaces. What we have here is a body that co-
ordinates all the best aspects of the National Trust in Britain with the greater involvement
that we have here with Government departments. It provides an independent body, and, as I
said in my introductory remarks, there are people who, when it comes to negotiating
covenants, would prefer to deal with an independent organisation rather than with a
Government department. Opposition members must accept that. It certainly would have
applied when they were the Government.
One of the obligations of the Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust is to co-
ordinate the various open space responsibilities of Government departments and local
government, and to advise Ministers. Although outside the Government, these individuals
will advise the Government. Are members opposite opposed to that? If they are, they can
vote against the Bill. If they are not, they should support it. I cannot understand the attitude
of Opposition members other than that they want to have a dollar each way.
Mr WETERE (Western Maori): The comments I wish to make are similar to those
made by my colleagues. I have been waiting for the Minister to indicate the general purpose
of the Bill. My sympathy and loyalty to Her Majesty are unquestioned. However, will
another trust be established to commemorate a similar celebration for Her Majesty's
successor? What consultation did the Minister have with the Maori people, or the Municipal
and Counties Associations? All he has told us this afternoon is that the idea of the trust was
that of the Federated Farmers.
Hon. V. S. Young: No, I didn't say that.
Mr WETERE: I understood the Minister to say that before the election the Federated
Farmers had a similar scheme, which was to be called a heritage trust. I have nothing against
the trust being the brain-wave of the Federated Farmers, but what support does the
Government have for the Bill? The Minister has said the Bill will go to a select committee,
and we look forward to hearing the submissions. However, if we knew the purpose of the
legislation we might be able to accept it at this stage. The Minister also said that the trust was
to be independent, yet at the same time he said six departmental heads were to be appointed
to the board. How can that board be independent when six departmental heads will be
appointed to it? The member for Roskill said he had great faith in the Department of Lands
and Survey, the Forest Service, and other Government departments, and I join with him in
that. However, I should like to know how independent the board will be. How many
National Party people will seek nomination, because of the name of the trust-the Queen
Elizabeth the Second National Trust? Did the Minister receive support for the Bill from the
National Party's Maori Advisory Committee at the last National Party conference? Will


## p. 1921 (#377) ###########################################

4 August
1921
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
estate land be included in the open space provision?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): There are none so deaf as those who will not
listen. I am sure the member for Western Maori has a copy of the Bill in front of him, and
will be able to see that 10 board members, representing those groups concerned with the
protection and the preservation of open spaces, and including a representative of the Maori
people, will be appointed in various ways. The six departmental heads appointed to the
board may speak, but will have no voting rights. The main intention of the measure is to
involve people outside the Government in the management, protection, and preservation of
open spaces. The member mentioned consultation. The Bill has been widely discussed with
interested organisations and individuals, and has been mentioned in the press since the
concept was first introduced for public debate just before the last general election.
The idea is not solely that of Federated Farmers. The member would have heard me say
that the provisions in this measure were included in the National Party's 1975 election policy,
and that when the Government discussed the matter with Federated Farmers it was
discovered that that organisation was preparing a similar trust. Discussions were held with
Mr Stevenson, who is known to the member for Western Maori, and it was agreed that it
would be better to have one organisation, with Federated Farmers properly and formally
represented; and that was written into the Bill. I cannot understand the attitude of members
opposite. Since the establishment of the trust was first mooted the letters I have received
have contained nothing but praise for the concept, and support and interest in the idea of
involving people outside the Government in the protection and preservation of open space.
Mr Hunt: How many letters were received?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: One letter expressed criticism, because the correspondent consid-
ered the Historic Places Trust should have also been involved. Members opposite should
allow the Bill to be introduced and referred to a select committee so that they can listen to
the submissions that will be received.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): The long title of the Bill states that the Act is one to
commemorate the silver jubilee of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second. However, in
clause 4 we see there will be a board of directors consisting of eight people, who could
possibly be appointed by a Minister of the Crown, and another two directors elected by the
members of the trust. As this is a "silver jubilee" Bill, could I have the Minister's absolute
assurance that members of political parties will not be appointed to the board?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): I will not give that assurance. Regardless of
whether the board members belong to the National Party, the Labour Party, or any other
party, they will be appointed because they are New Zealanders. The most appropriate
people will be selected to serve on the trust.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): I take a similar stance to that of the member for
Roskill, that, although I agree with the general concept of the Bill, many other aspects still
need to be clarified. I strongly support the belief of the member for Roskill that the Bill
should be administered by the Department of Lands and Survey. We are discussing the
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill, yet clauses 23 and 24 are headed the
"National trust fund" and "National trust fund account"-which are most unfortunate titles.
Why could they not have been called the Queen Elizabeth the Second trust fund and trust
fund account, or the New Zealand trust fund and trust fund account? Some people will be
suspicious enough to think that clauses 23 and 24 set up trust funds and trust fund accounts
for the National Party. Any political association with the measure should be eliminated if
possible.
I also support the proposal that the Bill should be administered by the Department of
Lands and Survey instead of by the trust set up in the Bill. During the Labour Government's
term of office, 39 000 acres were set aside for public reserves and were administered by that
department. The Bill represents a fragmentation of reserve legislation, and that is undesir-
able. A coastal reserve survey was carried out some years ago to examine priorities for the
preservation of land. Has that survey been considered in connection with the Bill, and where
do the priorities established by the survey fall in the legislation? The constitution of the trust
seems to be another example of "jobs for the boys". The Department of Lands and Survey is
doing the work efficiently at present, so why should a trust be constituted, with certain plum
jobs to be decided at the discretion of the Minister? Two directors are to be appointed by the
Minister after consultation with Federated Farmers. Members of Federated Farmers are
very good at farming, but that does not mean that they are very good at preserving trust
land. I cannot see the necessity for Federated Farmers to be represented on the trust. Why is
one director to be appointed by the Minister after consultation with the Municipal Associa-


## p. 1922 (#378) ###########################################

1922
4 August
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
tion? How much of the land will be in cities and boroughs? Just because the Counties
Association has to be represented, the Municipal Association also has to be represented. We
are getting to the ridiculous stage when trusts like this are being established.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: The honourable member makes himself ridiculous every time
he speaks.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR: We have the Acting Prime Minister acting again. I hope he
will have a contribution to make. Obviously the points we are raising are disturbing him.
Another body for which there is no real need is being set up. The Opposition agrees that the
silver jubilee of Her Majesty the Queen should be appropriately celebrated and acknow-
ledged, but we question the way the trust land is to be administered. The Minister has said
that the Bill will go to a select committee. I am pleased about that, but before it does he will
need to do a lot more research and produce a much more convincing argument than he has in
the House today as to why the trust should be constituted in this way, and as to why the land
should not be administered by the Department of Lands and Survey. That is the proper body
to administer it. There is no need for the trust. This is another "jobs for the boys"
Bill-another, I suspect, "jobs for the National boys" Bill.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): The arguments put forward by the member for
Timaru are so ridiculous that I shall answer them straight away, although some people would
say that they hardly deserve it. The Labour Party is starting to show its colours. Members
opposite are the democratic socialists, but there is no democracy. They do not want to
involve the people, they do not want to foster co-ordination from outside the Government,
but they want to be in power to give orders to public servants, and to say, "We will take this
block of land, and we will set aside this block over here." It may be correct that the Crown
purchased some 39 000 acres during the term of the Labour Government-I do not know the
exact acreage but, whatever it was, the Bill emphasises that open space can be protected
without purchases. I know that the Reserves Bill provides for that, but this Bill provides
another avenue for people-some of whom will have coastal land-who prefer to have their
land protected by way of easement, and administered by an independent body such as the
National Trust. I have spoken to people in North Auckland, and I am sure that many of the
Maori owners of land would prefer to deal with the National Trust. The trust will not be in
competition with, nor will it replace the responsibility of, the Department of Lands and
Survey, but its work will be complementary to the department's work.
The Labour Party sees only one way of providing for the open space needs of the
country, and that is by purchasing the land and removing it from private ownership to public
ownership, and the administration of that land by the State rather than by an independent
organisation. If that is the philosophy of members of the Opposition, let them vote against
the introduction of the Bill. It is not our philosophy. We want to involve the people as widely
as possible in responsibility for the protection, preservation, and enhancement of the open-
space countryside and some of those delicate areas around our coastline that need protec-
tion. The establishment of a National Trust provides one more avenue to achieve our
objectives of protection; and the trust will work with the Department of Lands and Survey
and other departments. I cannot accept the Labour Party's attitude. Its arguments are not
convincing; they are doctrinaire. Members opposite are not democratic socialists; they are
socialists.
Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori): I want immediately to clear up some of the
Minister's extravagant claims. If Government members have not got a reasonable reply, they
turn to socialism and other old bogeys. One would have expected the Bill to be a forerunner
to a unified approach. There is not even agreement on the name. Why not
replace the word “national” with the words “New Zealand”? Are members opposite not
proud of their country? Anything involving the commemoration of the silver jubilee of Her
Majesty the Queen should be something we all agree on. The proposal started off in the
National Party's manifesto. During the last 20 months the Government has been trying to
find some credible way of fulfilling its stated policy, but there is not a single item in the Bill
that could not be achieved under existing legislation, except that the Bill sets up another
body. The Minister agrees. What is the need for another body? The Reserves Bill was
proposed to take care of the very things that this Bill purports to do.
The Minister has said that people would far sooner deal with an independent body.
Most Maori people would treat with the Crown, and the Crown alone. They will not treat
with anyone else. In spite of the disputes the Maori people have with the Crown from time to
time, I submit that they would much prefer to deal with it, and the Minister should think
carefully before upsetting that relationship. Indeed, I believe he needs to be sure that a much


## p. 1923 (#379) ###########################################

4 August
1923
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
better relationship between the Maoris and the proposed trust could be established before
the Bill is made law. I emphasise that, although on occasions the Maori people entirely
disagree with the Government, they believe the Government is the party with whom they
should deal; and the Minister should realise that.
If the Bill is made law, the situation could arise where the trust decided that Bastion
Point should be administered by it because of the open spaces it comprises. If any such
attempt were made, I am sure the trust would have as much success in convincing those
people at Bastion Point that they should accede to the demand as it would in convincing
Aucklanders that it should administer the whole of Auckland. Such a situation would be
ridiculous, and could not be achieved. The proposed body was manufactured in the National
Party's policy in 1975, and has been given creditworthiness by the occasion of Her Majesty's
silver jubilee anniversary. Only one purpose of the Bill cannot be achieved under existing
law, and the Minister should also take that fact into account. No one argues with the need for
the proposed addition. The third Labour Government can justly be proud of its records. It
simply entered into arrangements with the people concerned, and it did not need to be
socialist to do that.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: But you are now, aren't you?
Hon. M. RATA: I point out to the member that in this Bill the Government is
abrogating its responsibilities; it is running away from the need to accept full responsibility
for safeguarding New Zealand land by setting up a trust and saying, “That is your job.” The
Government itself has the responsibility of undertaking that task. A great deal of effort has
been devoted to ensuring that land is used for its proper purposes during the past few years,
and that emphasis should be maintained. Adjustments can be made to the law to give effect
to any suitable proposal, and the funds necessary can be made available in a similar way.
How on earth the proposed trust can be expected to succeed in its objectives with the
limitations to be placed upon it I do not know. The Minister should well know that one
cannot transfer a major responsibility to a newly established body, and leave that organisa-
tion to run the whole affair on its own. I hope further examination will be made into how
New Zealand's open spaces can best be preserved, with a view to achieving that end with the
full co-operation of the people, and particularly the landowners. The people like to be made
aware of their responsibilities, but at present they have to deal with a multitude of statutory
bodies. It is high time some of them were thrown out. Certainly, I can see no basis for
introducing any more. I can see no reason for the Government, purporting to be acting in the
name of Her Majesty, to introduce yet another Bill to try to justify the sloppiness of the
policy it created in the first place.
Mr SPEAKER: Before I call the next speaker I think I should say that I shall be glad if
future speakers will talk to the motion that the Bill be introduced. We are having a very
wide-ranging second reading debate. Although it seems that members on both sides approve
of the Bill, apart from some internal details, the discussion we have had has had almost no
relationship to whether or not the Bill should be introduced.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): The reason for the opposition of Labour Party
members to the measure is now becoming a little more apparent. They have a sort of
paranoiac attitude to the word "national". If we had called the proposed trust "the heritage
trust", I wonder whether they would have been pleased to accept the Bill. They were in
Government for 3 years, and I wonder how much longer they needed to remain in that
position before changing the name of, say, the National Airways Corporation and giving it a
title without the word "national" included. I came across that naive attitude when I was a
member of a select committee considering a Bill involving the "National Racing Authority”.
No; the body could not be given that name, and so it had to be the "New Zealand Racing
Authority". I wonder what Opposition members would like to do about the national
anthem. Do they propose to change or delete the word "national"?
It seems that Opposition members are unwilling to involve people in an administrative
way, or to have an advisory body on the very important programme of protecting and
extending open spaces. They are not willing to listen to anyone outside the Government.
They maintain that the department should have the whole burden. I know that the
department does a great job, but the National Trust will provide one further avenue of
approach. I am sure a great number of New Zealanders will welcome the opportunity of
being associated with it, and will prefer to negotiate their easements and covenants over
private land with the National Trust.
Hon. M. Rata: How many?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I cannot, of course, say at this stage, but I can tell the member for


## p. 1924 (#380) ###########################################

1924
4 August
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
Northern Maori that the correspondence I have received shows that there is a great deal of
support for the concept. I emphasise that the directors of the National Trust will be
appointed from the ranks of outside people who are eminently suitable for the position and
want to serve their fellow countrymen as members of the National Trust. Three will be
appointed by the Minister, one of whom will be the chairman, and one will be appointed by
the Minister after consultation with the Minister of Maori Affairs, and he will represent the
Maori people. What more can we do to ensure that the Maori people who own land will have
adequate opportunity to be represented on the trust? I consider that, contrary to the attitude
of the member for Northern Maori, the people will be pleased to have the opportunity of
negotiating covenants and easements over their land with the trust, and perhaps retain the
land in their ownership. Certainly the land will be reserved for the benefit of New
Zealanders-and I know that the Maori people are not selfish in the use of their land.
Finally, the member for Northern Maori, who was Minister of Lands in the former Labour
Government, said great achievements had been made under that Government.
Hon. M. Rata: That's right, first class.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: Socialist movements, yes; many good socialistic achievements were
made. The member for Timaru talked about the coastal land. I remind him of a Bill
introduced during the time of the Labour Government. I am sure he can recall Mr Moore's
Coastal Moratorium Bill, in which it was proposed to take 1 km of land inside the high-water
mark and vest it in the control of the Minister and the Crown. It was considered a very good
idea until it became a bit hot, and then it was dropped very quickly. However, I know well,
as does the member for Northern Maori, that its main provision was retained in the Reserves
Bill that the then Labour Government was preparing for introduction. I point out too that
the provision was removed from the measure by the National Government, because it
believes that added protection can be provided by establishing a National Trust to
encourage—and I emphasise “encourage", not "enforce"-willing land owners to bequeath
their land as reserves on suitable occasions or to make donations to the National Trust.
People will be able to negotiate with the trust covenants and easements to protect land of
beauty. Such land will be protected and maintained in its present use, and it will be available
for the enjoyment of all people. The landowners will not necessarily have to give up
ownership. I advise Opposition members to allow the Bill to proceed if they believe in the
general concept of the measure as I have outlined it. If they do not wish to accept that
concept, then let them vote against it now.
Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori): First, I make it clear that I shall oppose clause 4 as it now
stands because I too believe that the Maori landowners would prefer to negotiate directly
with the Crown. I am always suspicious of any moves taken by the Government to acquire
land, especially Maori land.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: The land is to be donated, not acquired.
Mr REWETI: Yes, and I have seen similar propositions made before, but the Maori
people have never benefited from any such moves. Why should representations made on the
proposal have to go through the Minister of Maori Affairs? Surely they should come directly
from the Maori people who own the land. Do the Minister and the Government have no
confidence in the ability of the Maori people to select their own representatives on this
board? One representative is not sufficient for the amount of Maori land that will be
involved; and this indicates the ignorance of the National Government about Maori land.
The Maori people in both the South Island and the North Island want to be responsible for
what they do with their own land.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: What does that have to do with the Bill?
Mr REWETI: I am pointing out that the Maori people should have two representatives,
as has Federated Farmers.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: Well, why can't the Welsh have two representatives?
Mr REWETI: Yes, why should they not have two representatives if they own land? Why
should not everyone who has land have a representative on the board?
Mr D. M. J. Jones: The Morioris, too?
Mr REWETI: Descendants of the Morioris are living in Taranaki and in the Chatham
Islands. The ignorance of Government members is evident from the interjection of the
member for Waitemata. That ignorance has permeated the history of the Maori people and
their land.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: What does that have to do with the Bill?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I heard an interjection, "What does this have to do
with the Bill?", and I must admit that I, too, am at a loss to understand what it has to do with


## p. 1925 (#381) ###########################################

4 August
1925
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust Bill
the Bill. I heard references to Welshmen and to Morioris, but can find no reference to either
of those people in the Bill. As Mr Speaker said before he left the chair, the motion before
the House is whether or not this Bill should be introduced. As he pointed out, most members
have been discussing the merits of the Bill itself, which is quite proper for a second reading
debate. What is proper for the introduction of a Bill is a series of short questions to elucidate
for members what is in the Bill so that they can come to a conclusion as to whether or not it
should be introduced. We do not discuss the principles of the Bill until the second reading.
Mr REWETI: I was endeavouring to answer the interjections from Government
members, and I thought that was relevant.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Occasionally, irrelevant interjections are allowed to be
answered, but, just because a matter is raised and is considered irrelevant, it does not mean
that, automatically, members have the right to carry on a debate on that issue. It would be
very helpful to the House if the honourable member came back to the Bill and told us why it
should be introduced.
Mr REWETI: The Bill should not be introduced because the Maori people would have
insufficient representation on the board. Probably only Maori members in the House would
know the reasons for the Maori people in the South Island wanting to negotiate about their
land which might be involved under the provisions of this Bill. That also applies to the Maori
people in the North Island. Why should the representative of the Maori people be decided
by the Minister of Maori Affairs? The New Zealand Maori Council is an organisation
recognised by both the Maori people and the Government as suitable to act on behalf of the
Maori people. The council's constitution is representative enough to cover the whole of New
Zealand.
Why should Federated Farmers have two representatives? Are they going to offer more
land, or do they have two representatives because they own more land? Has the Minister
consulted the New Zealand Maori Council, the New Zealand Maori Graduates Assocation,
or the Maori Women's Welfare League on this matter? We have been castigated on previous
occasions because insufficient notice was taken of the thinking of these organisations during
the introduction of Bills into the House. I hope the Minister will give serious consideration to
these two points: first, that representation will come directly through the New Zealand
Maori Council; and, secondly, that he will allow two representatives of the Maori people,
one from the South Island and one from the North Island.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): The arguments put forward by the member for
Eastern Maori almost persuade me not to seek special representation for a certain group of
people. He argues that the Maori people will be inadequately represented on the trust
board. Well, he should consult with his colleague the member for Northern Maori, who
argues that the Maori people would not use the good offices of the trust and would rather
deal with the department. You cannot have it both ways. Consultations have been as wide as
practicable. I believe that a member appointed by the Minister, following consultation with
the Minister of Maori Affairs, is the most effective way of getting the best representative for
the Maori people on the trust. The New Zealand Maori Council will discuss this matter with
the Minister of Maori Affairs, and he, in turn, will seek its opinion. It does little for the
arguments of the Opposition for the member for Eastern Maori to say that Federated
Farmers has two representatives on the trust board and the Maori people only one
representative. That sort of invidious comparison is quite unnecessary. We have
endeavoured to obtain a widely representative board. We have singled out particularly
Federated Farmers and the Maori people—and in many cases they are the same
people-because they are the owners of large areas of land. I think the representation is
quite fair.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: I move, That the hearings of evidence before the Lands and
Agriculture Committee be open to accredited representatives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
BAY OF PLENTY HARBOUR BOARD EMPOWERING BILL
Mr ALLEN (Tauranga): I move, That leave be given to introduce the Bay of Plenty
Harbour Board Empowering Bill. This Bill relates to a piece of land which was recovered
from the sea by the Bay of Plenty Harbour Board. The piece of land adjoins the city of
Tauranga, and, to enable the city to take over the land and to use it for the purpose intended
and for which it is being used now, junior yachting, this Bill has to be put through the House.


## p. 1926 (#382) ###########################################

1926
4 August
Bay of Plenty Harbour Board Empowering Bill
It is a very simple operation, and this is almost a machinery Bill. I apologise to the House
because the legislation has not been approved by any ethnic group. However, the people in
Tauranga are New Zealanders and did not think that was necessary. This will be an Act to
authorise and empower the Bay of Plenty Harbour Board to transfer a certain piece of land
to the corporation of the city of Tauranga. That land shall be vested in the corporation of the
city of Tauranga as a reserve subject to the Reserves and Domains Act 1953.
Motion agreed to.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
SOUTHLAND HARBOUR BOARD RECLAMATION AND EMPOWERING BILL
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central): On behalf of the member for Awarua, I move,
That this Bill be now be read a third time.
Bill read a third time.
RODNEY COUNTY COUNCIL (GULF HARBOUR) VESTING AND
EMPOWERING BILL
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central): On behalf of the Minister of Customs, I move,
That this Bill be now read a third time.
Bill read a third time.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr LATTER (Marlborough): When the debate was interrupted last night I was talking
about the transport package in this Budget and making the simple point that this is the first
major change in transport since 1938, that it is a very decisive change, and that it is the first
step in the long-term aim of having total co-ordination between the four modes. This is a
pricing package that brings some sensible economic relativity between road usage and the
cost of roading.
I intend spending the rest of my time talking about what many New Zealanders feel
about a Budget. They do not ask, "What is in it for New Zealand?" Perhaps they should, but
they tend to ask, "What is in it for us?" The newspapers and other media ask, "What is in
the Budget for the man in the street?" I shall address myself to what was in this Budget for
the people of Marlborough, the people who put me here. First, I am delighted to see great
assistance being given to the young family and to the one-income family. At the beginning of
this year I was reported in the Marlborough Express as saying that my greatest wish for this
year was that we should give more assistance to the one-income family. Naturally I am
delighted to see the extra help being given to those groups.
I was delighted also to see the first move forward by any Government into inflation-
adjusted savings bonds. This is indeed a great credit to the efforts of my colleague the
member for Piako, and is one of the most attractive parts of the Budget to anyone who wants
to put away a nest egg. The rebate on rates for owner-occupier homes will be very popular
with and helpful to the people in Blenheim and Marlborough. The stamp duty exemption
given on Budget night on first homes and first sections will help the younger people in my
electorate who are working and saving towards their first homes.
Mr Hunt: An extra $3 in interest.
Mr LATTER: We need a little common sense. The member has had his say on the
Budget, and it is my turn for my bit. Savings bank lending and the extra securities ratios will
release about $35 million into the housing field, some of which will come to my electorate.
The changes announced for loans to single people will also help my electorate. I am proud of
the steps taken by the Government in the field of education. The extra money that will go
into pre-school education, particularly play schools and kindergartens, will be of great
assistance; and I applaud the increase to $500 per annum in the boarding school allowance.
That will help the people in my electorate, as it will help the people in the electorate
represented by the Leader of the Opposition. He did not mention it in his speech; and he
represents a forgotten electorate-a place called Tasman.
Mr Hunt: Oh, come on.
Mr LATTER: No, I won't come on. He should come on and get with it in his electorate.


## p. 1927 (#383) ###########################################

4 August
1927
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr Hunt: That's unfair.
Mr LATTER: It is not at all unfair. Many people living in the Sounds and at present
represented by the Leader of the Opposition will come into my electorate; and they are glad
to move because they need better representation in the House. The superannuitants in my
electorate who enjoy the benefit of the national superannuation scheme will be pleased to
see that they will no longer have to file a tax return at the end of the year. I was also pleased
to see that the amount for tax-deductible charitable donations and school fees has been
increased.
Urban areas rely on successful rural areas, of which agriculture is the base. When I
spoke in the Budget debate last year the Leader of the Opposition said there was nothing in
the stock incentive scheme, except for the established farmer. He was wrong then, and he
still is wrong. The established farmer, who is farming up to the limit, receives very little, but
the developing farmer receives a lot. About 2800 young farmers have proved the Leader of
the Opposition to be wrong, and that means about $50 million annually in export earnings.
The stamp duty exemption on the purchase of a first farm will greatly assist young men
settling on the land.
I am glad that there will be extra moves in noxious plant control, particularly the
additional money to districts for one extra noxious weed. I like the way we are moving along
the lines of the Fitzharris report, but not the way this Government and its predecessor have
contemplated changes for nassella tussock boards. I ask the Government to leave these
boards alone. I am glad it did not increase the grubbing recovery rate to 75 percent. It had
the wisdom to keep it down to 50 percent, although the rate may be increased a little later. I
hope it is not, because the nassella tussock boards are the most successful noxious weed
eradicators in the country. The extension of the Rural Bank's lending policy for farm
employees will be a great help, as will be the farm vendor mortgage tax concession. The
continuation and extension of the dairy beef market guarantee scheme will help dairy
farmers. The travel assistance given to people living in remote areas will be of considerable
assistance to my electorate.
I feel I must speak against the Minister of Education and express my regret that nothing
has been done to assist the parents of children taking correspondence lessons. I hope that
while I am in the House I shall see some assistance given to these people who provide the
staff, the schoolrooms, and the playgrounds. They need help, and I believe it will be given at
some time in the future. The relocation assistance for parents of seriously handicapped
children is a significant move towards helping our intellectually handicapped. Irrigation
schemes play an important part in my electorate, and the Waiau scheme will be one of the
country's biggest. The Budget announcement about local hydro schemes has proved very
popular with the Marlborough Electric Power Board, and the North Canterbury Electric
Power Board, which comes into my electorate.
I now want to talk about fishing. The one package announced in the Budget that will
really affect Marlborough is the very generous assistance given to the fishing industry.
Again, I wonder how the Leader of the Opposition could speak without mentioning this,
because Nelson is the biggest fish processing area in New Zealand, and the Nelson and
Marlborough fisheries have a tremendous future. I am bringing to the notice of fishermen in
my electorate the extra incentives and help for fishing boat imports; the suspensory loans for
fishing boat construction; the special fishing boat loan to help suitably qualified fishermen
buy their first boat; the increase in loan limits; and the assistance of the Rural Bank for re-
engining, fishing gear, and improvements to equipment. Provision has also been made for
loans to people working within controlled fisheries, and a fishing boat ownership savings
scheme will be set up along the lines of the scheme operating for the purchase of a first farm.
The training incentives for the fishing industry and the extra research grant will help the in-
shore fishing industry of Marlborough.
I should like to make a few general comments about the Budget. I agree with the Prime
Minister that there are certain things we must do to survive. We must watch our costs, which
are influenced by many things. They are influenced by unnecessary payment of wages; and
last night I took up a comment made by the member for Timaru that workers wanted to be
paid for whatever they did. It is an unnecessary waste when we pay for stopwork meetings
and some industrial strikes. I believe that anybody who goes out and agitates for unrest, as
some people are doing at the moment, is really asking for a wastage of productivity. I think
there is a wastage through our Government departments. In an electorate like mine there is
no real co-ordination within the Government departments, except at Cabinet or perhaps
Public Expenditure Committee level. A trouble shooter is needed within a regional area or


## p. 1928 (#384) ###########################################

1928
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
an electorate to co-ordinate the activities of Government departments.
I see the former Minister of Works and Development is saying something about this.
Some of the greatest wastage comes under the Works and Development portfolio. When one
sees the wastage among the Ministry of Works and Development, the Railways, Transport,
the Post Office, and other departments it is obvious that a co-ordinator in each region could
cut down on the Government expenditure. As we move towards regional planning, regional
development, and regional government I hope the Government departments will move into
those regions. In an electorate like mine the work of one Government department goes to
Christchurch, that of others to Blenheim, Nelson, and some to Wellington. I make the point
that the departments should be looked at, because it is stupid that one department does
something one week and a week later an identical machine does the same work for another
department. The Budget is good for New Zealand, and I am proud to speak in the second
reading.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands): It is seldom that I have the opportunity of
complimenting the previous speaker, but I do so on this occasion.
Mr Wetere: What for?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: Was the member for Western Maori not listening to the speech of
the member for Marlborough, and the well measured arguments he put forward? Where are
the Opposition speakers? I should have expected that on this occasion the House would have
heard another selection speech by a candidate for one of the Auckland seats.
Mr Wetere: Another personal attack.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: Goodness gracious me, has anyone ever seen a political party in
such disarray as the Labour Party at the present time. Labour members of the House are
vying for each other's seats, and the member talks about personal attacks. Former members
of the House will stand against sitting members. My sympathy is with the people who are
trying to organise the Labour Party into some kind of a party, because I do not think
members know where they are going. A headline in tonight's Evening Post reads: "Lively
debate decides we don't know where we are going." My sympathy is with the Labour Party,
because it has lost that debate. Obviously, if it had more experience it would have been
arguing the affirmative of that debate. The Labour Party does not know who its spokesmen
are, and the spokesmen do not know the facts.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: What a heap of rubbish.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: During this debate I have heard a few heaps of rubbish from
Labour members. They have spoken at great length about national superannuation. They do
not like the word "national", but they have spoken about the superannuation scheme. The
people are entitled to know what the Labour Party would do about the superannuation
scheme if it were re-elected. Would it be scrapped or modified, or would a means test be
necessary? What would the Labour Party do? Some Labour members have quoted mislead-
ing figures and suggested that the national superannuation scheme will cost the country $900
million. They neglect to say that between $300 million and $400 million will be returned by
way of taxation. They have also neglected the fact that payments were previously made for
the age benefit and universal superannuation. Opposition members neglect these facts when
arguing against the principle of national superannuation, which is fair to all. They argue its
cost on figures that cannot be substantiated, but they do not say what they would do if they
were re-elected. They do not say that if the Labour Government were in power today
everybody's wage would be loaded by 2.5 percent, plus 2.5 percent from the employer,
making a total of 5 percent, and then 4 percent from the employee and 4 percent from the
employer-a total of 8 percent.
I shall now speak about some of the progressive measures contained in the Budget. The
Deputy Leader of the Opposition criticised the Government for paying too much attention
to the deficit before borrowing. It is unbelievable that a man who was once the Minister of
Finance should suggest that the Government should not be concerned about the deficit
before borrowing. Of course the Government must be concerned. One of the first require-
ments of the Budget is the need to maintain strict management of the New Zealand
economy. Although the Government has cut the deficit between Government revenue and
expenditure by two-thirds, it is still too high for comfort. It has been reduced from an
estimated $1,400 million to less than $400 million, but it is still too high and a matter of
concern to the Government.
Another Budget message relates to the conservation of energy and the wide use of our
resources, particularly to meet our transportation needs. The energy packet outlined in the
Budget has far-reaching implications for transport, agriculture, manufacturing, and forestry,


## p. 1929 (#385) ###########################################

4 August
1929
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
and indicates the Government's determination to avoid wasting resources. A further Budget
message is the Government's concern for the people least able to fend for themselves in
difficult times—the elderly and the young couples on a single income providing for growing
dependent families. The Budget ensures that the difficult times do not weigh too heavily on
their shoulders. The Budget is very much one for the times.
After listening to Opposition members' criticism about the level of taxation it is
interesting to note that, except outside the House, we have heard little of what they would
do about the economy. The member for Manukau, who is the spokesman for just about
everything, has said that the Labour Party would introduce new taxation policies. Why do
Opposition members not bring the new policies into the House and debate them during the
Budget debate rather than spread them around outside where they might have a captive
audience of a few dozen Labour Party supporters?
The function of the Budget is changing in today's society. It is more than just a financial
statement, a record of transactions, and a record of planned future expenditure. The modern
Budget can influence the future and give planned emphasis to investment and production
rather than to consumption. The modern Budget must provide a plan for New Zealand's
future investment in forestry and farming. Provision must be made for these items, because
many of them are charged to the present whereas the benefits will not accrue for several
decades. The Budget must also aim at reducing inflation, holding costs, limiting Government
expenditure, and collecting taxation revenue fairly and in a way that does not undermine
initiative. In the difficult economic times we are experiencing, the Budget presents a superb
balance between today's social needs and proper economic management and conservation of
the nation's resources. It provides for the future, but it does not neglect the present.
Nowhere is this more clearly illustrated than in the energy package. The energy
programme in particular demonstrates an enlightened approach to an international problem.
This Government is grappling, where other countries are groping, with the problem of
energy, its use, development, and conservation. The Budget makes substantial provision for
energy research, for the development of indigenous energy resources, including accelerated
geothermal power exploration, coal exploration, on-shore petroleum exploration, the
expansion of local hydro schemes, incentives for conservation of energy in industry, and the
encouragement of the domestic use of natural gas, and it introduces a new policy for home
insulation and sales tax on some petroleum products in order to shift the demand for energy
from imported fuels to indigenous ones. It increases sales tax on energy-intensive appliances
to discourage the unnecessary use of energy. It makes provision for car pooling, and for
further energy-conservation publicity. It provides about $50 million to be spent over the next
5 years on transport, $44 million for suburban rail services.
In addition, the Government has recently approved special finance for research into the
production of ethynol, or liquid fuel from trees. This will enable the Forest Research
Institute to install a laboratory-scale plant for intensive research into this process. This
research is part of the Government's programme of energy research that includes the
investigation of indigenous resources as alternative supplies to imported energy. Wood is a
renewable raw material. It is produced efficiently in New Zealand. The production of
ethynol, or ethyl alcohol, is just one of the ways in which wood can be turned into energy.
Already ethynol is being used successfully as an additive to petrol. The use of 20 percent
ethynol as a petrol additive could save about $60 million annually of this country's overseas
funds. However, at present ethynol cannot be made at a cost that would match the price of
petrol. The rapid rise in the cost of petrol in recent years is expected to continue, and there
will come a time when the production of alcohol from wood will be economically competi-
tive. New Zealand must be mobilised with the knowledge required to adopt the programme I
have outlined.
In all these measures, conservation is the key word. Indeed, conservation is the only
password to take New Zealand society as we know it today into the next century. Without
the conservation of energy and other resources we make ourselves more vulnerable to the
demands of other nations with whom we cannot compete for energy in global terms. Quite
simply, we will not be able to afford to keep buying the oil required for our needs at the
present rate of consumption unless there is a dramatic reversal of trends in our terms of
trade. In 1972 our oil imports cost less than $100 million; in 1977 they cost $500 million. In
addition, the purchasing power of New Zealand's exports is sadly diminished. The same
quantity of butter, cheese, and wool will purchase overseas only 60 percent of what it would
purchase 5 years ago. Increases in the price of fuel have contributed to this adverse trade
figure, as have increases in the price of other imports.


## p. 1930 (#386) ###########################################

1930
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Another burden is the bill the Government has to foot for the luxury—if that is the
word-of 3 years of Labour administration. In 1973 New Zealand was a creditor nation—we
had more in overseas reserves than our indebtedness to the rest of the world. How the
picture changed during those 3 years under Labour! Those bills have to be paid by the
production of our farms, our forests, our industry, and our people. We inherited from the
previous Administration debts that we will not have repaid until the early 1980s. Our balance
of payments deficit under Labour was $1,000 million. That has been halved under the
present Government. We must aim at reducing it still further, and even at eliminating it. The
key to the problem is the huge surplus of $45 million being run by the OPEC countries, and
the $10 million surplus enjoyed by countries like Germany and Japan. Because of the
surpluses, the rest of the world's markets must live with deficits of $55 million. OPEC and
the industrialised countries have a responsibility to the rest of the world to reduce their
surpluses, because the developing and primary producing countries are carrying more than
their share of strengthening the world economy. We must do what we can to ensure that they
do not shirk their responsibility.
We need to ensure that NAFTA remains a reciprocal agreement for the benefit of New
Zealand and Australia. Our trade with Australia runs two to one in its favour. New Zealand
is Australia's biggest market for manufactured goods, and this should be recognised by the
Australian manufacturers who too often try to keep New Zealand goods out of their country.
We can enjoy the reciprocal growth of NAFTA only if the benefits are shared on both sides
of the Tasman. In this, continued sales of newsprint and pulp loom large. We must continue
to be able to supply Australia with her pulp and paper needs from our expanding production.
We have the capacity to do it, but we must rehabilitate one of New Zealand's largest
companies, Tasman Pulp and Paper Ltd. A number of factors have contributed to the
problems faced by Tasman, but let us not overlook the militant action of several unions that
helped bring that industrial giant almost to its knees. The extra construction costs and the
start-up delays caused mainly by strikes and increased capital costs meant that an extra $30
million had to be found. Other industrial stoppages caused the company to lose production
to a gross sale value of $12 million, almost all in overseas exchange. The irresponsible action
of some unions must not undermine our determination to rehabilitate Tasman so that it can
continue its pulp and paper supplies to Australia and the rest of the world.
Now I want to speak about farm woodlots. In 1970 the Government introduced the
forestry encouragement grant scheme. Its success was immediate. The area of new forests
established annually rapidly rose to 6500 hectares in 1975. Forests established and authorised
under the forestry loans and grants scheme cover in total an area half as big as the
Kaiangaroa State Forest. That gives a comparative description of the total area of forests
involved in this scheme. The annual establishment has stabilised at the 1975 figure of about
6500 hectares, mainly because inflation has reduced the maximum grant payable to well
below the 50 percent of qualifying costs that it was originally intended to meet. The most
serious effect of this decreased level of incentives has been the tendency for woodlot and
forest owners to neglect the essential tending and land preparation in their plantations. The
Budget increase in the maximum grant to $450 a hectare over the life of the crop will restore
the incentive to the level established in 1970.
Those farmers who were originally granted loans of $200 a hectare were also having
difficulty in finding the capital necessary for the proper tending of their established wood-
lots. To assist these growers it was decided to convert their original loans to grants. It was
also decided to permit these owners to receive grants under the grants scheme for any
subsequent costs required to bring their woodlots up to an acceptable standard. As well as
this, borrowing terms for local authority encouragement loans have been simplified. A single
interest rate of 4.5 percent has been introduced. It is anticipated that the restoration of the
grants scheme to its former value and the improvement in the local authority loans scheme
will encourage landowners to increase their new plantings, and in this way the target of
10 000 hectares of new plantings a year will be reached.
We must invest in the industries that are based on our own resources. New Zealand's
greatest resource is its people. We must use this, together with our soils and our climate. We
must not depend on industries that rely on imported raw materials or other components
purchased from abroad. In other words, we must continue to expand forestry and farming,
for it is in these areas that we can most readily boost our economy.
The expansion of farming and forestry, of course, depends on wise land use decisions.
Recently there has been a growing realisation that wise land use decisions are essential if we
are to maintain a sensitive balance between all man's demands on the land. It is a scarce


## p. 1931 (#387) ###########################################

4 August
1931
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
resource, and we owe it to succeeding generations to use this resource wisely. We must bear
in mind the distinction between flexible land uses and inflexible land uses; by "flexible" I
mean those that can be easily changed in the passage of time. Farming, of course, is a flexible
one. A less flexible one is that which commits land for a considerable period, even up to a
century. A commitment is made either for land for urbanisation or land for forestry. For
forestry, however, the point needs to be made that, although the land use is relatively
inflexible, there is a great deal of flexibility when it comes to the end use. Our trees can
eventually be used for building, for writing, for wearing, for liquid fuels, and as a raw
material for industry.
The distinction between land uses that are compatible and those that are incompatible
also needs to be made. For example, use as a public reserve is compatible with the use of
land as a water catchment, but land for agricultural purposes and wet land preservation is, of
course, imcompatible; and it follows from this that the compatible uses must allow, and,
indeed, encourage the multiple use of our land. All these considerations need to be taken
into account when considering wise land use.
Since assuming office, the Government has invested a large amount of skill and effort in
major land use studies. The Department of Lands and Survey and the Forest Service in
particular have been directly involved in two such studies, one in south Westland and one in
the King Country. Both these studies were undertaken because of proposals for afforestation
schemes, but, although they have that similarity, they differ markedly. In south Westland 90
percent of the land in question is Crown land, whereas in the King Country the greater
percentage of land is privately owned. In south Westland the land use study was presented at
the recent highly successful seminar on forestry held in Hokitika; and the study seminar on
forestry held in Hoitika; and the study was carried out in difficult circumstances and a
comparatively short time. Interested agencies and individuals now have the opportunity to
make submissions on that study, and, after this public input, the Government will be in a
position to make balanced decisions on the use of Crown land in south Westland.
The public participation stage, which is an integral part of these studies, has almost been
reached in the King Country land use study. Last Tuesday I received a copy of the report,
which represents an enormous amount of work, particularly by the Department of Lands
and Survey. It is a voluminous document that brings into focus the complexity of the land use
problems in the King Country. The document in itself is not a blueprint for future
development, but it clarifies those areas where policy decisions will need to be made. The
land use study adopts the scenario technique, used so successfully by the New Zealand
Energy Research and Development Committee. As with the south Westland land use study,
after a period of public evaluation and input the Government will be in a position to make
balanced decisions.
We have yet to resolve, of course, to what degree a Government should involve itself in
the land use decisions for private land. I do not believe that any Government should tell a
landowner to what purpose his land should be put. The controls and restrictions that may
apply do so under normal planning legislation. However, where it is a contribution from the
Government to a specific land use, whether it be farming, forestry, or in some cases
urbanisation, then the Government has a responsibility to influence land use decision. There
is also the question of the social and economic results of differing land use policies, many of
which are showing up on the West Coast as the new native forest policy is being
implemented. The social problems of introducing a policy that can affect an industry that is
100 years old in an area such as the West Coast, where there is little alternative employment,
provides a number of social challenges for the Government to meet, and I can give the
House the assurance that the decisions will be made fairly when it comes to the implementa-
tion of the indigenous forest policy on the West Coast and elsewhere.
The Budget indicates that the Government appreciates the need for continued emphasis
on land settlement and development. Financial support for these activities through the Rural
Banking and Finance Corporation will be increased. The level in 1977-78 will be increased to
$163 million. Last year, 1070 first farmers were settled by the Rural Bank, the Department
of Lands and Survey, and the Department of Maori Affairs, with an increase in the amount
provided for the special settlement of young farmers.
There is no doubt that land settlement and development will continue to be an
important part of the Government's activities, and in particular of the Department of Lands
and Survey. The Government is determined to settle as many young farmers as possible
through the Department of Lands and Survey and the Rural Banking and Finance Corpora-
tion. The Government is committed to the principle of the private ownership of our farm


## p. 1932 (#388) ###########################################

1932
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
land, as it is committed to the principle of the private ownership of people's homes.
Incentives are given in the Budget for people purchasing their first homes or their first farms.
Special committees of our policy group are not being set up to investigate the nationalisation
of land, as the Labour Government was doing. That sort of thing emanated from the Labour
Party conference.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: That's not correct.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: Yes, it is. The idea of the nationalisation of land was introduced
into the House by the member for Wanganui. As members opposite are self-acclaimed
socialists, instead of rejecting the suggestion they examined it and referred it, behind closed
doors, to the policy committee. In conclusion, the Labour Opposition is grappling with
internal problems and trying to find electorates for its members-and some of them will have
the greatest difficulty. The number of contenders for the Onehunga seat must be a record in
the annals of the Labour Party. It seems so pointless, as the seat will be won by National
anyway. Since the Leader of the Opposition opened this debate I have not heard any
constructive criticism of the Budget from any member opposite. The Budget is a superb
document, presented for these times to deal with the problems of today, and to prepare the
country, through investment and dedication, for the problems that will face it in the future.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga): The Minister of Lands has just told us that the
Budget provides an incentive for those people wishing to purchase their first farm or first
home.
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider: That's right.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: The Minister of Trade and Industry agrees. However, it means
that farmers with a Government loan need an extra 40 lambs to pay the increased interest
rate the Government has placed on its mortgages. What sort of incentive is that? The interest
rate on a Housing Corporation mortgage of $15,000 has increased by 1 percent to 8.5
percent, which means that repayments will cost an extra $3 a week. What a tremendous
incentive!
The Minister of Lands said he was concerned at the way Opposition members spoke
about the Government's superannuation scheme. The blue Budget-and it really is blue-is
nothing more than a super-tax Budget. The Minister confirmed this when he said the
superannuation scheme would cost about $930 million, but that $300 to $400 million would
be returned through taxation. The superannuation scheme is costing an extra $300 million a
year. Where does that money come from? Is it from taxation, or is it from the family benefit
capitalisation grant for home purchases that has been reduced from $800 million to $500
million? The Minister asked how the Opposition would deal with it. However, I refer him to
the Waikato Times of 29 June, in which it is stated that the member for Hamilton West
doubted that the country could long sustain paying superannuation benefits to those who
were still working, and asked what justification there was for it. The Minister should ask his
colleague what he thinks about the scheme. As I said earlier, the Budget is a super-tax one,
and sets out to collect tax at a higher rate than ever before in the country's history.
The Minister said also that the Budget provided incentives for local hydro schemes.
Where? Although we read nice words in the glossy publication, we have yet to hear from the
Minister of Energy Resources about the incentives. The Budget states that Ministers have
yet to tell us how the measures provided for are to be implemented. I read a newspaper
editorial the other day which stated that the present Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister,
had introduced so many mini-Budgets that he had forgotten how to present the main one.
This is how the Government is fooling the people into thinking that it has a solution to the
country's economic troubles. It has not.
I was interested to hear the Minister admit, at long last, that one of the problems facing
the country at present with its trading balance was the high cost of importing oil-something
that members on this side of the House have been telling the Government for a long time.
No one in his wildest dreams would have thought that the cost of importing oil would
increase from $100 million in 1972-and I am using the figures quoted by the Minister-to
$500 million in 1975. The Labour Government was not to blame for the deterioration in the
balance of payments. It was caught by the high imported inflation, but had no way of dealing
with it. The Government could not demand that overseas countries reduce the price of the
commodities New Zealand had to buy from them.
During the biggest depression since the 1930s, the Labour Government borrowed so
that people could keep their jobs. At its present rate, the National Government will borrow
more in 2 years than the Labour Government did in 3 years. The lower interest rates
arranged by the National Government are determined by the international market and so


## p. 1933 (#389) ###########################################

4 August
1933
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
are mainly due to the good will built up by the Labour Government. However, this
Government is trading on that, and is squandering overseas funds. During its 3 years in
office the Labour Government borrowed, on an average, $63.3 million a month, whereas the
National Government has been borrowing $77.7 million a month. The present Minister of
Finance tramped around the country before the election telling the people he had the
solution to New Zealand's economic problems, and would deal with inflation. However, all
he has done is to increase inflation, thereby adding to the burden of the working man.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: Before the suspension of the sitting I pointed out the fallacy of the
Government's claims about the overseas deficit, and that the Labour Government had
borrowed an average of $63.3 million a month during its term. The National Government's
average is 77.7 million a month, despite the biggest export boom in our history. The current
deficit is running at more than $1,300 million a year. The Government puts the blame for the
large invisible deficit on interest payments on overseas borrowing under Labour. That does
not tally with the facts. In the year ended March 1977, official debt interest payments
amounted to $159 million out of a total of $1,295.9 million in invisible payments. A large
proportion of that $159 million would be interest on National Government borrowing, not
Labour Government borrowing. Under Labour we saw a huge boom in exports, but the
National Government's record has been dismal; $1,300 million has been squandered in
reducing the balance of payments deficit by only $248 million in 15 months.
The member for Marlborough talked about the cost to the country of industrial
stoppages. It is a tragedy to see the loss in production because of industrial stoppages, but
the climate created by the National Government has been responsible for much of the loss.
The Abstract of Statistics shows a dramatic situation. In the 1975 calendar year the number of
workers involved in industrial stoppages was a little under 75 000, but by 1976 just on 201 000
employees were involved. In the 1975 year, $4,200 million was lost in wages, but last year the
figure was $10,840 million. That means that there was considerable loss of production.
Dr Shearer: Who is responsible for that?
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: The Government is mainly responsible, because it has created a
climate that has made the working man most unhappy with his lot. The sooner we see more
social democracy in New Zealand, the better.
The member for Timaru dealt with transport at some length last evening. I refer to the
Prime Minister's comments when he opened the Taumaruni Railway Station, the contract
for which was let during the term of the Labour Government. The Prime Minister said that
an announcement about relaxation of the 40-mile limit for road transport haulage would be
made shortly, and that that would subject the railways to more and keener competition for
freight. That statement was reported in the newspaper. Last year, the Minister of Transport
said he preferred the relaxation to apply to commodities in distinct areas, rather than a
general easing of the 40-mile limit. Obviously there is conflict between the two Ministers.
This year, the Minister of Transport has turned around and said that road transport was not
being used to its fullest, and suggested that some of the heavy capital expenditure needed on
the rail system could possibly be avoided by better utilisation of the road transport fleet. The
Minister is now arguing with himself. The Budget, in effect, allows private transport to
operate for a greater distance on the highway system. If the Prime Minister's wish were to be
fulfilled, the railways should be receiving extra capital right now to provide more rolling
stock-as it was being provided under the former Government-so that the railways could
compete fairly with the private operator. Now we learn that the private operators are to get
concessions.
I believe that the bus replacement programme in urban areas is a good one, but, without
corresponding measures to encourage greater patronage of urban public passenger transport
services, that move will not offset the huge losses. We expected to see in the Budget some
encouragement to the commuter to use the public transport system. One of the most
alarming things is that, according to the Minister of Transport, there will be direct rating by
new big city transport authorities that are to be set up. What does that mean? An authority
that is to be set up—not an elected body-will levy a rate on the people who reside in the
area.
I think of my own area in the Hutt Valley, where the largest portion of the urban
transport system is operated by the railways. I have heard a rumour that it is proposed to
withdraw the New Zealand Railways Road Transport Services from the more lucrative areas
and to hand the services over to private operators, who will not take on heavy losses in
suburban transport. I should like the Minister of Transport to confirm or deny that, because


## p. 1934 (#390) ###########################################

1934
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
we have every right to know whether the Government, for instance in the Taranaki area, is
going to operate the provincial bus services that are to replace the Blue Streak. Is Nelson
Transport, or one of its subsidiaries, to take over that run? We understand that already
Nelson Transport is buying up carrying businesses in the Taranaki area. We want some
confirmation from the Government that it will not hand over the more lucrative passenger
transport services to a private transport operator. It has been estimated that heavy trucks do
more than 40 000 times the damage to the road surface than private cars do, without much
more contribution to the National Roads Board funds-and these have been run down over
the past 20 months. The advantages of the new move will be more than offset by the
increased demands for roading expenditure that will result from the extension of carrying
limits for road transport operators. I fear for the Railways Department under the policy
being operated by the Government. I also deplore the secrecy in which the Government
considered the measure. It said that a relaxation of the 40-mile limit against the railways was
under review, but did not mention that it proposed to increase the distance to the extent it
has. Road transport operators will have a distinct advantage over the Railways Department;
the department will be left to carry the uneconomic freights while the road transport
operators hop in and make a kill. I had hoped that the Government would ensure that the
Railways Department was at least in a position to compete on a reasonably sound basis.
Government members talk a lot about private enterprise. I would prefer to see free
enterprise, whereby public and private operators work side by side and together for the
betterment of the community as a whole.
Let us consider roading expenditure. We see that in 1976-77 the National Roads Board
was given $130.4 million, and that for 1977-78 it is to be given $130.7 million, including the lc
a litre petrol tax-a huge increase of about $300,000. Last year the National Roads Board, in
its annual report, warned the Government that roading and bridges were heading for
disaster; yet, despite record inflation of more than 20 percent in the roading costs index, only
$300,000 more is being provided for roading this year.
Hon. W. L. Young: Who is responsible for the inflation?
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: I ask the Minister, who is chairman of the National Roads Board,
that question. After all, is he not in control of the situation? Unfortunately he is not, and
neither is his Government. Last year the Government spent on State highways $2.5 million
less than was spent in the previous year.
Mr Hunt: In spite of the inflation.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: Yes, that is right. The amount spent on roading construction fell
by $5.9 million, representing a drop of 14 percent in money terms, and, in real terms, a fall of
27 percent. At the time of the last election we were told that roading would be given a fair
share of the country's finances. I do not believe it has. Let us consider what is happening
throughout the country.
On the Picton-Christchurch highway there are 12 substandard bridges, and on the West
Coast 21 wooden bridges are more than 50 years old. Fifty-one wooden bridges are between
the ages of 40 and 50 years, and 103 bridges in the Christchurch roading district and 50 in the
Gisborne area have restrictions on them. In recent years 12 percent of the National Roads
Board's spending has been on bridges to meet the target of 8 kilometres of new bridging a
year, but last year only 853 metres of new bridging was constructed. The Waiau Bridge, 85
miles north of Christchurch, has a class II limit on it, and road operators either have to make
a detour of about 60 miles or unload their rigs, have them ferried across the river, and reload
them on the other side. Who pays for all that performance? Of course, it is the consumer
who pays in the long run.
Under the National Government the improvement cycle of roads has fallen from an
average of 57 years to 76 years. That means the highway pavement must iast for 76 years
before it becomes due for improvement. Highway bridges are being replaced at the rate of
only 1 percent, which means that bridges now have to last an average of 100 years before
they are replaced. I point out that many bridges are of wooden construction. In the super-
Budget the Government provides for a rundown of railways and encourages the use of more
heavy-duty traffic, which will further increase the damage to our roads. What a silly policy it
is turning out to be.
I have seen a report in which it is stated that in the years following the establishment of
the National Roads Board 70 percent of the total motor taxation was received by the board.
"Today", continues the report, "the situation is reversed, with less than 30 percent of this
tax take being used for roading." In the same report it is claimed that, on the wider financial
implications, the total roading expense expressed as a percentage of the gross national


## p. 1935 (#391) ###########################################

4 August
1935
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
product has shown a steady decline from 2.6 in 1965-66 to well under 2 percent at present. In
monetary terms, that represents a drop in expenditure of almost $100 million in 1976-77. It
has been estimated that road users, through existing taxes, will pay about $125 million to the
National Roads Board this year, including the additonal lc a litre petrol tax imposed
recently. I understand that representations have been made to the Government seeking the
restoration to the National Roads Board of the taxation money taken from registration and
licensing fees, as was the position before 1967. I should like to know what the Government
intends to do about that, and believe I have every right to ask that question during the
debate.
I am troubled by the fact that a third of the contracting industry's equipment and plant is
lying idle at a time when, as I have already explained, a great deal of our bridging and
roading needs urgent attention. We have the equipment and most, if not all, of the materials,
we have the manpower and we have the know-how, but we do not have a Government with
the strength to take positive action. In fact, we have learned-as one person has put it—that
we have Scrooge's shadow falling across the highways. The Government has been paying lip
service to private enterprise, but the contracting industry is in a crisis state, as is the building
industry, all because the Government has failed to honour the pledges it gave on the hustings
at the time of the last general election. We have heard that it is a private enterprise
Government. Well, let it prove that by encouraging the improvement of our roading system
and enabling the contracting industry to use the millions of dollars worth of equipment that is
lying idle. The men are going to Australia because there is no work for them in the industry,
but they are an export we can well do without.
The other day I was concerned to read a report in a local paper in Upper Hutt that the
Upper Hutt City Council is required to increase the rental of pensioner accommodation.
Recently, I learned that our pensioners have received an increase in their national superan-
nuation. The Government gives with one hand and takes away with the other. I should like
to read an extract from a letter sent to pensioners occupying pensioner accommodation in
the Upper Hutt district: “The maximum rental of units is not to exceed one-sixth of the total
income before tax or one-sixth of the appropriate basic or standard Department of Social
Welfare benefit or accumulated income when the flat is occupied by more than one person,
or $7.50 whichever is the higher. Rentals for existing tenancies will be increased at annual
review times by not more than $2 per week per year until the maximum level is reached." In
effect, the pensioners are to have their rentals increased because the Government feels they
are not paying enough, and the local authority, which is finding it difficult to meet the
maintenance costs of these properties is forced to increase the rentals. This is where the
Government's superannuation scheme falls apart. It is based on the average weekly wage,
whereas the Labour Government set up a special cost-of-living index which meant pension-
ers would receive just recompense for increases in the cost of living.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: But you didn't give it to them.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: They paid no tax and did not have the hassle of filling in a return at
the end of each financial year. Now they are having to fill in these returns and pay tax. These
people are being told that their rents will be increased to $12 a week for a married couple in
stages of $2 a week. The Government is paying lip service to the social beneficiaries.
Millionaires are receiving the same superannuation benefit as the beneficiaries I have just
referred to. Whose need is the greater? Funds provided for capitalisation of the family
benefit decreased by $300 million in 1 year, and yet people who do not require the money are
receiving increased payments.
I am concerned that people, in my own area particularly, are getting a pretty raw deal
on housing finance. In Totora Park, in Upper Hutt, 40 houses are sitting vacant. Some have
been empty since the beginning of the year because willing buyers could not raise the
necessary finance to buy them. The builders are now living off the fat they built up during the
term of the Labour Government, and the houses they have built are eating their heads off in
capital costs. In view of what the National Party said during the last general election
campaign, the Government has a responsibility to make it possible for people to get into
these homes. We are told, however, that there will be a fall-off in the housing finance
available from Government sources this financial year because, according to Government
speakers, there is no need for the moneys required in former years. Under this National
Government people cannot afford to buy the houses, and builders are experiencing delay in
receiving their payments from the Government.
Forced mortgagee sales, on average, are six times more than when we were the
Government. Young people in my electorate are asking the Housing Corporation for small


## p. 1936 (#392) ###########################################

1936
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
loans to refinance mortgages. I know of a solo-mother who requires only $5,000 to continue
occupying the home in which she is bringing up four children. She is a working mother and is
not calling on the taxpayers for assistance, but she will lose her home because she cannot
raise the $5,000 other than through the Housing Corporation, which has the lowest rates of
interest, even though the Government in this year's Budget has put up the rate by over 1
percent. The Government betrays the people when it fails to care for those who need
assistance, such as social security beneficiaries and those requiring housing. The sooner this
Government recognises people's needs, the better for everybody. In fact, the sooner it gets
out of office, the better for New Zealand.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but he has used up his
time.
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): I have been listening with interest to
the member for Heretaunga, the Labour spokesman on works and development. He ranged
over a wide field. He said there had been a record number of stopwork meetings during the
last year. Apparently he does not realise that many of them were short meetings protesting
against Government action. The National Party was voted in on its pledge to put the
economy right. We have set out to put right the climate created by the Labour Government,
and we are faced with protests because the fixing is a painful process. The member for
Heretaunga then dealt with the extension of the 40-mile road limit, but he failed to tell us
that the Labour Government had four Ministers dealing with transport. They brought down
a green paper, and then just before the election they brought down a white paper, saying,
"The green paper is off; we will not do anything about transport." The member spoke of
capital investment in the Railways. He did not remind us that his Government did
nothing that it ordered no railcars, no stock transport, and no engines. The Labour
Government allowed the railways to get into the doldrums, and this Government has had to
deal with the problem.
He then switched to city transport authorities. He had heard a rumour-and evidently
he acts on rumour-that the Government might take away the Hutt Valley's advantage over
Wellington city, in that the former has buses run by the Railways and not paid for by the
ratepayers. He deplored the Government's secrecy over its transport proposals, because it
took us about 18 months to produce a policy after a complete review of transport. He
ignored the 3 years in which the Labour Government's secrecy produced nothing. He cried
crocodile tears for the National Roads Board, but his own record, and that of the Labour
Government when it could have supported the National Roads Board, does not bear
investigation. Then he made this interesting statement: "We have the know-how, the
equipment, and the manpower; we have everything, so why does the Government not do
something about the roads?” He did not suggest where the money would come from. In one
part of his speech he said, "Down with taxes", and in another part, "Up with expenditure",
but he gave us no idea of the wonderful formula he seems to have in his mind—a formula
that his Government gave no demonstration of during the 3 years it was in office. He wants
taxes down and expenditure up, and that just about covers his speech.
Whatever has happened to the Opposition's power of positive thinking? It seems to
have gone-perhaps future shock has caught up with it already. The Opposition's approach
to this debate has been negative. As always, the Labour Opposition lacks direction; it does
not know where it is going. I regret very much that, because I was in Australia trying to
straighten out the Australian Minister of Agriculture's understanding of our position, I
missed the speech of the member for Christchurch Central. Obviously, this was my loss. But
I did hear him speak on a nationwide interview, and very interesting he was, too. He said
that the Budget provided no incentive for increased production, he was not keen on the
livestock incentive scheme-mostly because he had not thought of it himself-and he wanted
changes in the taxation system. When the interviewer asked, "What other incentives do you
think the farming community should have?", he replied, "I don't know."
I was interested to hear that he would not have cut the fertiliser subsidy, but he did not
say what he would have done instead. When he said he was keen on taxation changes, the
interviewer asked him if he could be a little more specific, and he said, "No, but it will be
coming out in our next policy." Whacko! We will have land tax, wealth tax, capital gains tax,
the lot-all good incentives for increased production and getting people on the land. Unlike
the Opposition, the National Government has a positive approach to the problems and
affairs of the country. Measures introduced in this Budget and during the last year to
promote greater farm production and to restore confidence to the farmers are proof of that. I
shall deal with that later, but first I intend to speak about my other responsibility, Maori


## p. 1937 (#393) ###########################################

4 August
1937
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Affairs.
The member for Northern Maori, who has been in the House for 15 or more years, and
who was Minister of Maori Affairs and Minister of Lands for 3 years, complained that some
of his constituents in Northland have grave housing and living condition problems. He
implied that these problems were the responsibility of this Government, even though it has
been in office for only 18 months. Why did he not do something about the problems during
his 3 years as Minister? Has he spent too much time in Auckland, and not enough time in
Hokianga and Upper Te Hapua? Has he done anything about Maori land lying idle in those
areas? Has he moved amongst his people suggesting that they should incorporate and bring
their land into either forestry or farming schemes? Recently, the Race Relations Conciliator
commented on the small number of Maori justices of the peace representing the Auckland
area. Now, the only person who can nominate a justice of the peace is a member of
Parliament, so the Race Relations Conciliator probably meant that the member for
Northern Maori and the member for Western Maori have not nominated Maori people in
Northland. I was surprised to hear what the Race Relations Conciliator had said because I
did not think he would attack those members.
All that is good in this Budget for the people of New Zealand is good for the Maori and
Polynesian peoples; but because of their special needs the Maoris and Polynesians receive
some special treatment. Most of our policy is now working, and one can compare this
Government's performance in the last 18 months with the empty promises of the previous 3
years. I should like to record one or two of our achievements. This year the Prime Minister
addressed the New Zealand Maori Council-the first Prime Minister ever to do so. With the
assistance of the member for Wairarapa and the member for Awarua, we have been making
progress in implementing our Maori policy. Good results have been achieved in Maori land
development this year, admittedly partly because of prices, but for every $1 spent $1.36 has
been returned. The figure of $9.2 million compares favourable with the $6.8 million for last
year. New grass has been sown on 1200 hectares, and buildings, fences, and roads have been
constructed. Not many people realise that the Minister of Maori Affairs is the second largest
farmer in New Zealand.
Some property that has been free of development debt has been offered back to the
owners, and in some instances they have asked the Department of Maori Affairs to carry on
running it. In regard to the sales of Crown Land and Maori Trustee interests, many owners
prefer to retain their stations rather than subdivide them among their own people, and in the
last 12 months shares worth more than $1 million have been transferred or sold to owners
paid from the profit that they have obtained from the land. We should consider the purchase
of land generally, as compared with Maori land. Much public attention has focused on the
retention of Maori land for Maori homes.
The Department of Maori Affairs has assisted in the purchase of land, and many
families have been settled on house sections. In the last 2 years more than 3200 hectares of
land other than Maori land have been bought for $3.7 million, and Maoris have been settled
on that land. That has helped the Maoris to stand on their own feet, and to farm the land. It
is a two-way traffic; some Maoris wish to sell land, while others wish to buy it. Many
hundreds of Maoris have obtained State houses in the normal way, but large numbers of
Maori people would prefer to save their money to buy their own homes, and so stand high as
house owners. On 31 March 1977, housing deposits in individual Maoris' deposit accounts
amounted to more than $2 million, an increase of $1.6 million on the previous year. This
proves that the Maoris are keen, and have the capacity to save to buy and own their homes.
The Budget contains an interest rate concession, whereby people on lower incomes can
purchase houses more easily. That applies not only to Maoris, but also to pakehas, and
mostly it applies to young families who prefer to build rather than to rent a house. Between
1970 and 1972 I arranged for some counties, two particularly, to allow Maoris to build houses
on traditional Maori land. I hope that practice will spread further, because it is of
tremendous significance, as the member for Northern Maori knows. Back in the 1920s, trust
boards were set up for the Arawas, the Tainuis, the Tuwharatoas, and the Taranakis, and
payment was made to them in perpetuity by the Government of the day for land that had
been either confiscated or used by the Crown. This year the Government has increased that
payment by 50 percent, which is some recognition of inflation, but that was certainly not
done when those people had a Maori as their Minister. I have made a strong plea to the
Maori trustees of these boards that this money should be saved and invested so as to
overcome the inhibition of the 21-year lease that applies to much Maori land.
Last year we arranged finance for the New Zealand Maori Council, so that it could be
13 Vol. 412


## p. 1938 (#394) ###########################################

1938
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
independent and have the money ready for the Maori people. The council did not have that
advantage when a Maori was Minister under the Labour Government. The Minister of
Internal Affairs has asked the Lottery Board of Control to make a contribution to Maori and
Polynesian causes, and the board has agreed to grant $10,000 to each group. As the
Government promised, the Minister of Internal Affairs has set up a Maori arts and culture
committee as part of the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council. I understand that $50,000 has
been allocated, and that is something else that was not done by the Labour Government.
The Government has carried out its promise, and arranged financial support for Maori
incorporations through the Rural Bank. This is already working well, and eight incorpora-
tions have already borrowed $450,000. This has freed departmental resources, which can be
used for individual Maori farmers. Despite what the member for Christchurch Central said,
more than $300,000 has been taken up by Maori farmers under the livestock incentive
scheme. Extra trade training courses have opened up in New Plymouth and Auckland, and
they have been an outstanding success in teaching trades to young Maoris, both male and
female. That is something Maoris have learnt so much better than their pakeha brothers.
In regard to transferring the control of Maori reserve land from the Maori Trustee to the
owners, the Mawhera Incorporation on the West Coast has been handed back, the Taranaki
Incorporation of 27 000 hectares with 400 leases has been handed back, and the Palmerston
North reserves are to be handed back in 3 months. The Whakatu Incorporation is being
formed in Nelson and Motueka. Initial talks are taking place about Wellington lands so that
the owners will be able to run their own affairs. So the progress made by this Government in
handing back traditional land unfolds.
However, there are some disquieting areas in Maoridom, and Maori health in particular
leaves much to be desired. I am thinking particularly of the Maori children, but lung cancer
has increased at a greater rate in Maori women than in any other ethnic group in the world.
The growth of drug addiction is frightening. Of the 54 patients in a drug clinic in Wellington,
11 were young Maori women, and 8 were young Maori men—19 out of 54. The problem
starts with petrol sniffing; then it moves to marijuana, heroin, cocaine, and the opiates. We
also have the evils of the massage parlours and the ship girls. These problems are really
beyond the Government; they concern all the people of New Zealand. These are not just
Maori problems, or departmental problems. They call for understanding and the use of the
country's resources, and in particular the full co-operation of elders and the parents of the
young people is needed. There are some grave challenges ahead for this magnificent race,
which, in 130 years, has tried to accept an imposed European civilisation with all its warts
and cankers, and new moves introduced in the Budget by the Minister of Health will be of
vital significance in this field. Althought I am Acting Minister of Fisheries at present,
because the Minister of Fisheries is overseas checking the advances we will need to make
when we have the 200-mile economic zone, I am unable to spend much time on fishing
tonight. However, the member for Rangiora and the member for Lyttelton will deal with
that subject in some depth.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: Another Minister overseas.
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: Yes, another Minister working for his country. It will be of great
benefit to us, because as every member realises, fishing is probably our greatest challenge. It
also offers opportunities for increased overseas funds. Because New Zealand depends on the
farmer's efforts, the Budget includes many examples of the Government's continuing policy
to increase production. Unless the farmer rolls up his sleeves, New Zealanders will get
thinner. There is no doubt that New Zealand's breadwinner is the primary producer, and
further policy planks have been implemented so that it will be worth while for the farmer to
roll up his sleeves. As one newspaper writer said, it was carrots for livestock. I do not know if
he knows what a carrot is, but he apparently knows what livestock is.
Previous Government speakers have already covered agriculture, and others will
continue to emphasise the points made in the Budget, which should compensate for the lack
of interest shown by the Opposition. What did the Leader of the Opposition have to say
about the mainstay of our economy? He commented on the increase in fertiliser prices, but
made no mention of the shift of resources into more productive areas. He commented about
the heavy burden on young farmers, but would not acknowledge that the Labour Govern-
ment caused the escalation of land prices. He also commented on our primary products
markets, and claimed that his Minister of Overseas Trade had gone overseas on two
occasions and had returned with an agreed 18 percent increase in the price of butter. He
forgot to mention that the Minister had accepted a decrease in the total quantity we could
sell. He also forgot to mention that the Minister had been unsuccessful in his cheese


## p. 1939 (#395) ###########################################

4 August
1939
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
negotiations, with the consequent result that from the end of this year New Zealand would
not have been able to sell any cheese to the EEC. The present Minister of Overseas Trade
has just returned from overseas with the news that he has managed to keep the door open.
The Budget's full impact on agriculture is not realised by many people. They look at the
Agriculture vote, but do not take into account the other provisions in the Budget that will be
of assistance to the farming community, such as the increased payments for pre-school
education, the increase in the boarding school allowance, the establishment of community
colleges, an increase in the money available for agricultural education, and the setting up of
5-day hostels. The Department of Lands and Survey has settled 55 farms this year, and the
Department of Maori Affairs has settled 19, with more to follow. Forestry encouragement
grants have been increased from $600 to $900 a hectare, and the annual expenditure limit of
$200,000 has been increased to $300,000. The Opposition has grizzled about the increase in
the 40-mile limit on road transport, but the changes announced in the Budget will be of great
advantage to the farming community.
The taxation changes announced will ensure a more efficient use of our resources. Sales
tax has been lifted from heavy vheicles-a call we have heard so often from the rural
community. This will mean a return of competition so that farmers will now have a choice as
to the best way of moving their produce, instead of being told by the Government that it
must be moved by rail whether or not that method is efficient. The cost of upgrading freezing
works to meet the hygiene requirements of the EEC countries is between $200 million and
$300 million, which the farmer must pay. It is therefore a welcome move by the Government
that grants have been made available so that the deadline can be met, and some of the load
can be taken away from the farmers. As an interim measure, a grant of 10 percent of
approved expenditure in the first year of use, or 7 percent in the year of expenditure, is to be
given, together with assistance of about $12 million over the next 3 years for the purchase of
plant and machinery. Freezing works will be given the option of a 30 percent depreciation
allowance in the year of first use, or a 20 percent allowance in the year of expenditure, in
addition to the 40 percent investment allowance announced in last year's Budget.
The member for Christchurch Central said the Government had done nothing to help
exports, but that is one very definite way the Government is helping. The meat authority,
which was set up last year by the Government, will survey the industry to determine the best
use of our resources and our money. The export industry has been strengthened, and this is
of great importance not only to the industry and the farmers, but also to the country as a
whole, because unless our meat is exported we will be hungry for money. The moves
announced in the Budget help everybody, a point that has not been picked up by many of the
commentators.
Another first has been achieved by the provision of farm employee accommodation. A
farmer can now buy or build a cottage in a rural village, so his farm labourer will be able to
live in the community and the children will be able to attend school without spending long
hours on the school bus. A farm worker ownership-on-retirement scheme has been
introduced, which will give to farm workers the benefits enjoyed by people living in cities
and denied to farm workers in the past.
The member for Christchurch Central grizzled about taxation. The stamp duty on the
purchase of a first farm has been waived, and under the terms of the farm vendor mortgage
scheme 50 percent of the interest earned by farmers who leave money in farms sold to
purchasers approved by the Rural Bank will be exempt from income tax if the money is left
in for 7 years. The livestock incentive scheme has been broadened, and the minimum stock
unit increase has been reduced from 100 to 50. This will be implemented retrospectively to
apply to programmes already approved. The cumulative qualifying increases have been
reduced from 2, 4, and 6 percent to 2, 3, and 4 percent. Thus, the scheme will be open to at
least 3000 more farmers who have the capacity, the land, the scope, and the will.
Last year, the Government and Federated Farmers had discussions to try to produce a
productivity incentive scheme whereby increased production from the same number of
animals would be rewarded. The problem was to find an equitable measuring stick for sheep
and cattle. We agreed we could produce something along those lines for dairy farmers, and
the Budget states at page 12: "In the coming year the Government will examine the
possibility of developing productivity incentives as an alternative to incentives for increasing
livestock numbers." That is a very important promise, and it is sound farming to get the
numbers right and then to increase production. The work load of the Rural Bank has been
increased, and the bank has done magnificent work in the past year. I believe the time is fast
approaching when the Rural Bank should be separated from the Housing Corporation. I am
13.


## p. 1940 (#396) ###########################################

1940
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
working towards that end so that the Rural Bank can stand alone and offer a career to the
staff who do such excellent work.
One could say much more about these matters, and about the number of young farmers
who have been settled on the land. Apart from the 1033 young farmers settled by the
Government, many hundreds of others have been settled through private means or by their
own family arrangements. Probably the greatest measure the Government has introduced in
the last year is the stabilisation of the meat and wool industries. For the first time farmers are
able to look forward to the next year knowing that the floor price will not drop more than 5
percent for wool, or 10 percent for meat. That means that the farmer can plan his future not
only for his own benefit, but for the benefit of New Zealand. No one should be overconfi-
dent about the future of New Zealand's primary production. Farmers are no different from
other New Zealanders-they will work if it is worth while. The farming industry has a large
say about where the country is going, but the farmers have little say about what they get for
their efforts.
The Budget attempts to give incentives to people who are able to move forward. It
indicates that the Government has ideas about other incentives, and if it works with the
farmers the incentives will be acceptable in due course. The Government knows which goose
produces the golden egg. It has some idea of that goose's requirements, and has set out to
assist her. The farming industry is New Zealand's greatest earner of overseas funds. Last
year it produced 76 percent of the gross national product, yet the farmers' reward was only
about 4.5 percent. Agricultural production must play a central role in New Zealand's future,
and the Government is determined that the farmers will be given every incentive so that they
can invest in their land as they wish, and can farm their land, and in due course retire with
honour. Increased farm investment is one of the major items in the Budget. The future
markets for meat, wool, by-products, and horticultural products are uncertain. The one
certainty is that the country depends on the producers of these products. The Budget will see
that our exports increase.
Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury): I deem it a great honour to speak after the Minister
of Agriculture, who, in the time he had available, outlined the guidance and leadership the
Government is giving to building up and restoring the confidence of New Zealand's primary
industry. He indicated that the Government is determined to farm its way out of the mess it
inherited from the Labour Government in 1975, and said we are well on the way to doing
that. Tonight I intend to elaborate on some of the matters mentioned by the Minister. His
speech was a contrast to the historic speech given by the Leader of the Opposition when he
opened the debate. That speech turned out to be another episode in the great Australian
step backwards, speaking for the remnants of a shattered party. During the debate we have
not heard one constructive suggestion about the most constructive and comprehensive
Budget presented to the House in the 11 years that I have been privileged to be the member
for Ashburton and then for South Canterbury.
The Budget expresses confidence in New Zealand's future and marks a turning point in
its history. It announces a new deal for the short-term and long-term development of the
country, and the Government's dedication to both national and regional development.
Never before has a Budget done so much for regional development. I am pleased that the
temporary member for Dunedin Central is present, because I shall tell him a few things
about regional development. Page 23 of the Budget states that a new grant scheme will be
introduced and that another new scheme will provide additional capital assistance for
regional development. If the member has read the Budget he will know that a new schedule
of inter-island freight rates has been introduced to assist South Island manufacturers and
other producers. The member may not like that, but it is only a small part of the
Government's regional development package. I hope members opposite are listening and
will take note of what I am about to say-they are certainly not going to sleep.
Regional development based on our primary production is quite spectacular. I shall
refer to the regional development taking place in South Canterbury and mid-Canterbury at
the present time. I could refer to other regions, but I shall refer to the development taking
place in my area. At present there is a dramatic extension of the processing industries, and
the Minister of Agriculture has mentioned the assistance that will be given to the freezing
industry to upgrade the processing of meat. That is regional development at its best. The
freezing works will be extended and upgraded to meet world requirements. Two new fish-
processing factories have opened in my electorate and in the electorate of the member for
Timaru. The member for Timaru recently opened one of the fish-processing factories, but I
have not heard him say in the House that a new fish-processing factory has been opened in


## p. 1941 (#397) ###########################################

4 August
1941
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Timaru.
While on the subject of fish I shall turn to the chips. Recently I had the honour of
opening a potato-processing factory in Makihikihi, a small town in South Canterbury. The
factory employs between 20 and 25 people. Another indication of regional development is a
lucerne-processing plant in Ashburton owned by a major company, which is going from
strength to strength. I understand that it might extend to South Canterbury before too long.
I am glad that the member for Timaru is present and listening, because I shall now tell him in
a positive way about the rate of diversification in arable farming. The wheat industry has
become stable and virtually self-sufficient under the National Government. Opposition
members are chirping up now-they need some chickweed to keep them quiet. I shall give
them that. New Zealand no longer has to spend $50 million of its overseas funds on imported
wheat as it did during the 3 years of the disastrous Labour Administration.
A major development in my area is the production of edible oils through oil seed rape
production, which has increased dramatically. Last year 5000 acres of oil seed rape were
grown, and this year 20 000 acres of seeds will be grown under contract. If that is not
progress and regional development, I do not know what is. Will the member for Dunedin
Central recognise that fact? I very much doubt it. Does he commend these developments at a
time of considerable economic stress? These are not easy times in which to diversify and
develop.
Over the last few years there has been a continuation of the activities of the linen-flax
industry in Geraldine, in my electorate. The factory has been running at a loss, but because
of my representations it has carried on and I am more than hopeful that this year we shall
have a 100 percent privately owned linen-flax industry in my electorate, following the
withdrawal in the near future of the corporation. I have been in close association with the
Minister of Trade and Industry, who has taken a great interest in the project, and several
parties are showing a great and real interest in taking over the industry. Local interests are
well to the fore. I am hopeful that a successful deal will be concluded in the near future. If
that is not progress, I do not know what is.
If regional development is not soundly based, it is not good development. The Labour
Party goes on about regional development, but most of the projects it set up were on shaky
foundations, foundations of sand, and they started to collapse. We believe that industry must
be soundly based if it is to be of any help to the region. If one looks around South
Canterbury and Ashburton one sees the development of new handling facilities for the
agricultural processing industries. At Tinwald on the outskirts of Ashburton the whole
skyline is changing, with new silos and new processing industries, all developing under a
realistic National Government that is determined to have regional development based on
our natural resources. The ceramics industry is going from strength to strength in Temuka
and Ashburton in my electorate. There has been a problem with the textile industries, but
we will have soundly based textile industries in the future because of the realistic policies and
realistic approach of the National Government.
Let us look further at the great regional development package, the new deal the
Government is giving the country. Let us look at the new transport policy, which is right at
the forefront of regional development. The Labour Government ran away from
transport—the former Minister of Transport, now the temporary member for Timaru, was
not prepared to make one decision. Tonight the member for Heretaunga said he was
opposed to this type of regional development-he was opposed to the relaxation of the 40-
mile limit on road transport. Let him deny that he said that. I should like to know, and the
Government would like to know, where the Opposition stands with the new transport policy.
Are members opposite in favour of the relaxations that have been announced by the
Minister of Transport so that regional areas can develop? Are they in favour of the new
policy, which will aid regional development in Ashburton, Hamilton, Tauranga, Wanganui,
and Palmerston North? I very much doubt it. They are not prepared to commit themselves.
They never could make up their minds, and they will not make them up tonight.
The Government's decisions on the role of road and rail freights, heavy motor vehicle
taxation, and the forward roading programme are amongst the most important decisions
affecting the transport industry to have been made by any Government in the last decade.
The 64 km restriction on road transport has been the subject of intense debate in the
transport sector since the Wilbur Smith report on transport was released in 1963. The former
Minister of Transport, the member for Timaru, shilly-shallied around. He could not make a
decision. New Zealand had to wait for a National Government to unravel the restrictions
that held back regional development. In Ashburton we would have had many more new


## p. 1942 (#398) ###########################################

1942
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
industries if the restrictions could have been got rid of a few years ago. After closely
considering various alternatives, the Government has made the vital decision that the
appropriate step to take is to extend the limit on road transport to 150 km, a vital and
significant move. Closely related to the extension of the 64 km limit is the decision to
restructure the basis of taxation on heavy motor vehicles.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Ha!
Mr TALBOT: Yes, this is also important and realistic. Let me tell the member for
Timaru that the system of taxation on heavy commercial vehicles has evolved piecemeal over
many years. He would not face up to it. The Government's decision is aimed at restructuring
road taxation as an instrument of transport policy rather than as a group of revenue-
collecting measures. When the 64 km limit is extended, road transport will pay taxes that
more closely reflect the roading and social costs they incur. At present, however, the
Government does not intend increasing the tax burden on the road transport industry as a
whole. The Government has made a bold move in the transport field-a move of great
regional significance.
I was pleased to hear the Minister of Agriculture mention many other matters relating
to the farming industry that are also of great regional significance. He spoke of the incentives
we are giving for the building of homes in towns and villages. Our small towns have been
wanting this for many years-measures such as the extension of Rural Bank lending for farm
employees. This will help to alleviate some of the remoteness felt by farm workers and their
families. It will encourage farmers to build homes for rural workers in small towns such as
Eketahuna, Mayfield, Hinds, and other areas. Also of importance is the home ownership
scheme to be introduced on 1 October. This will give access to Housing Corporation finance
to farm workers and others required to live in accommodation provided by their employers.
This goes hand in hand-and I wish I had more time to talk about these matters-with
the new approach to rural and regional development through the land settlement policy.
This year has seen the largest number of land settlement blocks made available for the last 10
or 11 years; 55 units have been made available, as well as 23 Maori blocks and 100 special
development loans. None of that could be matched by any Labour Government in our
history. Financial support for land settlement through the Rural Bank will reach new levels
again in the coming year. As outlined in the Budget, it will be increased to $163 million. In
my electorate the activities of the Rural Bank have been quite outstanding. In the last 12
months I have seen a wider range of young farmers settled on new blocks or on their first
units than at any time in the 11 years that I have been a member of Parliament.
We have also had bold new measures, and new expressions of confidence in New
Zealand's future, through an increase in the funding for soil and water projects. An
additional $2.9 million has been made available for new projects with high economic
potential. I congratulate the Minister of Works and Development on the increased allocation
for water and soil conservation. Finance for catchment works for resource-based develop-
ments has been increased this year from $8.5 million to $11.4 million, and for irrigation from
$4.9 million to $7 million. The total amount voted for water and soil conservation this year is
$27 million, as against $20.6 million last year.
I could go on to mention the wide range of measures that have been implemented, such
as the livestock incentive scheme—which has already resulted in a projected increase of 2.4
million stock units-noxious weed subsidies, fertiliser and lime subsidy of $83 million, and
the dairy beef scheme. The Minister has mentioned assistance for upgrading fertiliser works.
I want to mention tonight the quality of the measures that have been announced as
incentives and the encouragement to our primary industry. They are outstanding. I believe
that they cannot be measured in dollars written into the Budget. These effective measures
will get increased production and profitability under way, and that is what really counts.
Encouragement is being given in the right areas. The Labour Government had no answers at
all for these vital national and regional development areas. What has happened over the last
20 months under the National Government? What has been achieved? We now have new
farmer confidence, a restoration in the profitability of the farming industry, new encourage-
ments, and a new level of on-farm investment. We have achieved increasing volumes of
agricultural products for export, and we are maintaining a steady flow of people into the
industry through land settlement and other measures to encourage people to come to our
rural towns. These measures will help the standard of living of every man, woman, and child
in New Zealand. After the shattering experience of 3 years of Labour-
Miss Dewe: Of hard labour.
Mr TALBOT: Of hard labour, as the member for Lyttelton said, which shattered the


## p. 1943 (#399) ###########################################

4 August
1943
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
very roots of our farming industry, a new era is now emerging for our farming, and for our
primary production.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Not for sugar-beet.
Mr TALBOT: The member mentioned sugar-beet. It may not be too long before we see
proposals put forward for that as well, so the member can just wait a little while, and see
what will develop. I have spoken tonight of the opportunities and the encouragement being
introduced by the Government through a realistic Budget to build up industry and productiv-
ity, which will result in our economy, shattered by Labour, being restored.
I should also like to speak out strongly tonight on a matter of even greater importance to
every man, woman, and child in New Zealand: the great international issue, which I believe
will either make or break the free world in the relatively near future. I refer to the
opportunity that must be made available for countries such as New Zealand, along with the
developing countries, to sell agricultural products at realistic prices to the rich industrial
nations. On this basic issue alone will our medium-term and long-term future and our
standard of living be decided. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs are to
be congratulated on speaking out so strongly on this urgent issue in various world councils.
In recent years numerous conferences have concerned themselves with the plight of the
nations of the Third World, most of which are newly independent, and all suffering to a
lesser or greater degree from an inability to provide both productive employment and an
adequate standard of living for most, if not all, of their people. Many fine resolutions have
been passed by the United Nations and other international forums, expressing concern and
demanding action, but, regrettably, little real progress has been made. Countless millions of
words have been spoken on this issue, but there has been little result. Even considering the
period since the 1973 oil crisis, the poorer nations and the wealthier countries have
continued to move further apart in relative terms, and are still moving further apart, there
being no sign at present that the position is likely to change.
Many people in other countries, as well as in New Zealand, still think that our country is
one of the wealthiest in the world. About 20 years ago our per capita gross national product
was in fact fifth in the world, but we have now lost that high place. Today we are about
seventeenth, for the simple reason that our terms of trade are slipping against us, because
the relative value of the farm products we produce, as against the industrial products and the
raw materials we import, has deteriorated considerably during this period. Together with
this deterioration in relative value has been the extension of agricultural protectionism in
countries that today are traditional or potential markets. In some cases this results in our
products being either shut out entirely or admitted spasmodically in small and varying
quantities. Then there are other cases where the result is some kind of levy or tariff, which
causes the New Zealand producer to get only a fraction of the high price at which his product
is sold to the final consumers.
These policies are economic foolishness, in that they not only protect inefficient
domestic producers, but also encourage production while maintaining artificially high prices
to domestic consumers. In turn consumption is reduced, the final result being the accumula-
tion of subsidised surpluses. Situations such as this must put New Zealand on the side of the
Third World countries in the increasingly bitter struggle that is causing a continual and
growing sense of frustration throughout the world. Industrial countries endeavouring to be
self-sufficient in agricultural products can be considered to be bad international neighbours.
There is no way in which the relief of poverty and suffering in the nations of the Third World
can be accomplished.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Ha, ha!
Mr TALBOT: The member for Christchurch Central may think this is funny, but I do
not, and neither do the people of the Third World. These problems must concern every
thinking person in New Zealand. Industrial countries will have to lessen their present
policies of agricultural protectionism, and also jettison tariff and non-tariff barriers, which
have so often negated the apparent access to the market that they gave to the Third World
countries. It is a matter of urgent international concern that the living standards of the
wealthy should not be permitted to escalate, while the living standards of the poor remain
static.
The agricultural products that I have mentioned tonight have had a further difficulty
associated with them, as most of us know: a relatively small proportion of the total world
production enters into international trade, quite apart from the subsidising of inefficient
domestic primary industries. The result is that, through climatic and other factors, the
volume of goods in world trade fluctuates violently, and prices may fluctuate as well. The


## p. 1944 (#400) ###########################################

1944
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Government believes it is essential that international price-smoothing schemes be
implemented over a wide range of commodities-commodity agreements, in other words.
This is vital, and this is what New Zealand as a country, and the National Government, are
fighting for in international negotiations. We are fighting as hard as we can. The case has
been put by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and other Ministers who go
overseas from time to time. They have stated this position strongly again and again, as they
will continue to do, in world forums.
This is all relevant to New Zealand's acceptance, with other developed Commonwealth
countries, of the need to support an early and successful conclusion to the common fund
negotiations. An agreement in principle to set up a common fund will be a useful means of
clearing the way so that officials can get on with the necessary technical work in the hope of
including a wide range of goods in that fund. The Government recognises that agreement for
action on the common fund will be difficult, but it will be up to the affluent industrial nations
to take that action. At no other time has selfishness on the part of the large industrialised
nations been more dangerous. The Western World has little time in which to act. New
Zealand's trading difficulties are similar to those of the Third World. Those people who
discuss these matters say that there is quite bitter north-south dialogue.
The 1977 Budget is geared to increase the productivity of our primary and secondary
industries, and, through these measures, to increase the standard of living of all New
Zealanders. However, it has been necessary for the Government to take fairly stern
measures to tidy up the shattered economy and the mess left by the Labour Government in
1975. In just 20 months the National Government has set the base that will lead to major
medium-term and long-term growth in the economy. I regret that members opposite have
not made any positive suggestions during the Budget debate. As I said before, the
Government is putting its case to the world councils. I am sure that the people of New
Zealand will rise to the great challenge the National Government has given them.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): The member for South Canterbury spoke about what he
thought were the positive aspects of the Budget. The only positive comment I can make
about the Budget is that it does nothing for the people in my electorate who have to pay
more than $100 every 2 months for electricity; it does nothing to reduce the food bills of the
people in my electorate who are eating less this year than they did last year; it does nothing
for the people in my electorate who have to live in poor rental accommodation and put up
with it; and it does nothing to reduce mortgage payments, or keep them at the same level. I
can tell the member for South Canterbury what the Government did for Sydenham. A
lasting monument to the National Government are the two dirty great piles of shingle on the
side of Lincoln Road by an unfinished motorway.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: Who put them there?
Mr KIRK: They are still there. The Government did nothing about finishing the road it
had an obligation to finish. I wonder how long those very untidy piles of shingle will stay
there. As the Minister of Housing had something to say, I ask him how long those shingle
piles would stay if they were on Fendalton Road or Glandovey Road. I do not think they
would stay very long. Sydenham has become the dumping ground for half-pieisms of the
National Government and the Christchurch City Council. This is borne out by the half-
finished motorway, the half-finished urban renewal programme, and the half-finished park
project. The people in my electorate have only half the parklands they should have. I am
sure the Labour Party will do well in next year's election, because the residents of south
Christchurch will vote on the results of their grim experience rather than listen to the high-
flying promises of the National Government.
I am pleased about the Budget, because it means that the Labour Party is heading to win
next year's election. Several incorrect comments have been made about the railway system,
and the Minister of Agriculture was the first to offend in this manner. He said that the
Labour Government had not bought any engines. However, the 1975 estimates made
provision for 34 DX locomotives, and the 1974 estimates made provision for orders for 800
flat-top wagons, 75 box bogie wagons, 10 double-deck wagons for motor traffic, 100 high-
side wagons, and 46 bulk-cement/tallow wagons. It is not unusual for the Minister of
Agriculture to be incorrect, because he has not even left the shores of this country to defend
the agricultural policy he expounds to the farmers. The situation is quite grim. He should
take a look at the markets we need.
Government members have made many inaccurate statements during the Budget
debate. Last night the Minister of Immigration claimed that New Zealand was a good
country in which to live. That is a very strange statement from a member of a Cabinet that


## p. 1945 (#401) ###########################################

4 August
1945
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
has caused more people to leave the country permanently than are coming to New Zealand.
How can New Zealand be a good country to live in when electricity costs deny warmth to
pensioners and children, when the cost of food is shrinking the shopping list, and when
mortgage interest rates have restricted people in their choice of accommodation?
The Minister of Immigration put on his other hat on his other head and spoke on child
health. The Minister of Health, as a member of the National Cabinet, is promoting a
situation that is not conducive to the good health of New Zealand children. The present
circumstances have been fostered to the detriment of the ordinary person. In this country,
wealth now means good health. Children in my electorate, and in other parts of
Christchurch, are going to school without proper lunches, if they have any lunches at all, and
they are going to school during the winter without proper clothing or shoes. People in my
electorate, and throughout the country, are being deprived of proper living standards,
resulting in a breakdown in health.
This can be proved by a quote not from a political source but from the principal of a
Christchurch intermediate school, who tells us what is happening about children's health. He
said: "We have to cope with problems brought about by poverty, ignorance, and lack of
interest. In the winter, some children are dressed in thin clothing and are too miserable to
concentrate. Others have no coats, and sit all day in damp clothing. There are children with
inadequate lunches, and some who have none, children whose parents will not buy school
stationery, children who are not allowed to stay away from school because their parents are
working, and children who disappear from home for days on end, and whose parents take no
action. The Department of Health's district nurse is a regular visitor to the school, and sends
home children who have lice. We have had several outbreaks of scabies. Both these
conditions arise from dirty home conditions, but quickly spread throughout the whole school
on to clean children if unchecked."
That is what is happening in New Zealand schools today. The people's concern about
the inaction of the Minister of Health can be borne out by one of the members of the
Minister's own caucus. On 25 June last, the Waikato Times stated: "Hamilton East National
M.P., Ian Shearer, today attacked Health Minister Gill for what he described as petty
personalised attacks. He said, 'I have had enough of his personalised attacks. It is not the
type of politics a Minister of the Crown should resort to' Dr Shearer told the Times today."
Here we have a fellow caucus member of the Minister of Health who cannot condemn him
enough for his attitudes on health, and even for his attitude towards his fellow caucus
members.
We have heard some pretty wild statements during the debate, not the least of which
have come from the member for South Canterbury. He talked about trade. I do not know
what kind of business techniques the Government uses, or where it learnt them, but it seems
to operate on the premise that if you want to have a good trading partner, you must
antagonise him first. The Prime Minister told us last year what a promising market Japan
would be. We did not hear the member for South Canterbury, or any other member, tell us
tonight what kind of market it would be. Australia has almost declared economic warfare on
New Zealand. If the growing trade problems with the United Kingdom and Europe
continue, the only place for us to look would be the United States, but Government
members must bear the full responsibility for the demeaning of President Carter and his
family. [Interruption.] If their leader does it, they back him up; we never hear any dissent
from them. Certainly we have not heard the last of that, and we will talk later about the
effects on the New Zealand economy of one of President Carter's decisions.
The member for South Canterbury spoke at length about regional development. He
should have consulted his colleague the member for Wairarapa, and should have read
Regional Development News No.7. On page 8 of that report the Minister of Regional
Development discusses the cutbacks in the regional development programme. In the
Wairarapa the programme is going backwards. Perhaps South Canterbury is getting a little
more, because the member is starting to close in on the Minister of Tourism. The way he has
been acting recently, some might think he is the shadow Minister, but he is more the shadow
behind the Minister. The member for South Canterbury completely missed the point on
regional development. He should talk to his colleagues. Perhaps he is one of the favoured
few in whose area there is some regional development. The only thing the Budget does in
regional development is encourage workers in areas that need development to leave the
country. The Minister of Immigration knows all about that.
Ask the member for Lyttelton about her comments on regional development when the
Canterbury Progress League wrote and asked what she thought about business and factory


## p. 1946 (#402) ###########################################

1946
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
closures. She said that it was a farcical situation, and that although some factories were
closing down, other factories that wished to establish and extend their activities were unable
to do so because of lack of approval from various councils. The Canterbury Progress League
wrote back to her and said that the league was not aware of any cases where approval for the
establishment of new factories had been withheld by any council without good planning
reasons or lack of available land. The league wrote: "So that this matter can be pursued
further, I would be obliged if you would let me have copies of any correspondence that you
have had on the subject with Ministers or local bodies in the Canterbury Province."
Obviously, the member for South Canterbury forgot to consult the member for Lyttelton,
because she has not done a very good job at all. The member for South Canterbury did not
say anything about sugar-beet. He did not say anything about how the rates were to be
calculated or the new rail limits.
Mr Talbot: Is the member opposed to our transport policy?
Mr KIRK: Let me tell the member about the Minister of Transport.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I have already said that there are far too many interjections.
That sort of cross-conversation is quite unsatisfactory. Some members are more provocative
than others. Some do perhaps encourage, or make it more likely, that interjections will
happen. Nevertheless, members must put up with most of it and observe the rule that
interjections should be rare and reasonable, and not continuous.
Mr KIRK: I was about to tell the member for South Canterbury about the Minister of
Transport. Had he been more interested in the progress of the South Island, he might have
attended the SIPA conference in Nelson earlier this year, and heard the Minister of
Transport say: "I think the main reason I have come under a fair bit of criticism is because I
am the fellow who stops things. I am the one who took off the Rangatira, and cut the
railcars, and closed the branch lines, and while I have been the Minister NAC have trimmed
provincial services, and the Shipping Corporation stopped calling at Timaru." That is near
the member's area, and he should be quite concerned. The Minister went on: "I agree that,
on the face of it, all of this does not seem to do too much for the development of transport in
the South Island." I wonder if the member for South Canterbury should spend a bit more
time listening to his Minister of Transport when he is talking to those interested in transport
in the South Island. It will be difficult for the member for South Canterbury to have anything
other than an extremely marginal majority.
We asked the Minister of Transport the other day how the doubling of freight rates
would affect business interests, but he did not say that he thought that the doubling of freight
rates was important to the future of businesses in Christchurch and other South Island areas.
The Minister of Transport and the member for South Canterbury ought to be interested. The
Minister has done nothing but detract from the performance of NAC, and appears to wish to
bring NAC to a point where it will merge with Air New Zealand. Few other people,
including the member for South Canterbury-
Mr Talbot: Why is the member so worried about the member for South Canterbury?
Mr KIRK: I am not worried about him, I am just pointing out his folly, because he
needs to know. He should not make statements of that kind. He did not even touch on
tourism, which has great potential but which is going backwards at present under a
retirement Minister. The tourist industry asks why the National Government has saddled it
with a retirement Minister. Under the present Minister and the present Government,
tourism is being treated like a circus. Some Government members, if they have attended
tourist conferences, would know tourism is like a circus, because there is a laugh a minute.
'Tourism is being treated as a joke.
Mr Malcolm: That's a sick joke.
Mr KIRK: The member for Eden can say things like that. I will have an opportunity
next year to talk about them. I will not get involved now. He has a problem, and I can
understand that. To those in the tourist industry who may be listening tonight, I say that the
Labour Party will not treat tourism as a joke. The Labour Party appreciates the need for a
balanced tourist flow in the North and South Islands. This could be best achieved by
changing the arrival points of some flights from Auckland to Christchurch. At present,
Auckland is overloaded with accommodation requests. However, it seems likely that up to
seven new flights from America, Singapore, and Samoa will be initiated over the next 12
months.
That is where President Carter comes in, if he wishes to help the New Zealand
economy. He has not helped Air New Zealand's chances of keeping its good figures by
giving approval for three DC10 flights a week by Continental Airlines to New Zealand. I


## p. 1947 (#403) ###########################################

4 August
1947
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
think that the American President has said, “New Zealand will just have to sink or swim.”
We hear that the Minister of Transport feels that it is not his responsibility to become
involved in trying to whittle down those three flights, so that Air New Zealand does not
suffer any adverse effects. Of course, we have been through all that before, and on the
record of the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services in achieving victories in
any kind of situation at all the hope is absolutely nil.
The statement that tourism is going backwards is very true indeed. We are having fewer
arrivals from Australia, and that cannot be blamed on the strike of the air traffic controllers.
The member for Otago Central should be very concerned about the situation. I have heard
that many people are concerned about the downturn in accommodation requirements, and I
emphasise that he should be very concerned about that. I was speaking the other day to a few
of his constituents who are involved in tourism and I was told that they would not mind
having the previous member back in the House; he certainly did more for them than the
present member. The member for Otago Central should shake himself out of the apathy he
is in and give his constituents positive encouragement.
The South Island would benefit considerably if international flights were directed to
Christchurch. At this stage no truly international flight lands at Christchurch. It is true that
the trans-Tasman flights use the Christchurch International Airport, but no other overseas
flights land there. As additional flights are expected to come to New Zealand during the next
year, I hope that two or three a week from stopover points such as Fiji and Singapore will be
directed to Christchurch. At the moment the National Government is treating the South
Island as an economic doormat. That is about the true size of the situation.
The Minister of Tourism was not very happy when forced to admit that the rate of
growth in tourism has been only 2 percent in the past year. I wonder what it is this year. Of
course, the travel industry is not at all happy with the Minister of Tourism. Mr Milne, the
head of the National Travel Association, recently said, "The travel industry could be likened
to a vast diversified public company, with the Government as the board of directors." Well,
on its performance in tourism the board of directors ought to resign; it should get out
because it is not doing the job it should do. Mr Milne thought that too. He said the
Government had failed to set goals for overseas exchange earnings and had not established
plans, short-term, intermediate, and long-term, for promoting the industry to enable it to
reach proposed targets. In other words, the head of the most responsible travel organisation
in New Zealand has made it clear that the Government has no long-term or short-term plans,
and has not even thought about any since assuming office. The accommodation problem
certainly highlights the position. Air crews from flights landing at Auckland have to be
accommodated in hotels at Hamilton and Matamata because of the shortage of accommoda-
tion in Auckland.
Dr Shearer: What's wrong with Matamata?
Mr KIRK: It is 90 or 100 miles away from Auckland; that is mainly what is wrong with
Matamata. Then we have the travel tax rip-off-money taken from the industry. The
Government has made the grand gesture of granting $35,000 to the National Travel
Association, but I point out that it took $9 million from the industry last year and that the
$35,000 is on a dollar-for-dollar subsidy basis. The association is not at all happy. You know,
the Government will not even approve travelling expenses to apprentice chefs who attend
courses. Printing apprentices and motor mechanic apprentices are all given travelling
expenses, but the Minister of Labour refused when the apprentice chefs made a similar
request. The Industry Training Board cannot obtain money from the Government, and
therefore cannot do anything. The member for Lyttelton should be very interested in what I
say about tourism, because not long ago I saw large headline in the Christchurch Star,
"Tourism may help Chathams to prosper". The member for Lyttelton has taken no action at
all to provide the Chatham Islands with a decent air service.
Miss Dewe: I beg your pardon?
Mr KIRK: I said that the member for Lyttelton has done nothing to provide the
Chatham Islands with a decent air service. In her selection speech she said, "Their complete
disregard for what I believe is the individual's right to have freedom of choice in such things
as selecting one's own doctor or hospital, or school for one's children, combined with the
proliferation of socialist legislation"—and so on. She was happy to advocate the right to
freedom of choice then, but she has shown very little concern about those in the Chatham
Islands who have to put up with the air services they are given. The member for Lyttelton
and the National Government made a decision that they hoped would interfere with the
judgement of the Air. Services Licensing Authority. If that was not so, they should have


## p. 1948 (#404) ###########################################

1948
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
postponed a decision until after the authority has considered the position. They say they
stand for private enterprise, but on that occasion they stepped in and created a very serious
problem for an airline that has tried to establish a reasonable service on an economic basis. I
ask the member for Lyttelton whether she is prepared to stand in the House at this time and
say she is prepared to give the Chatham Islanders freedom of choice in the establishment of
an additional necessary air service.
In the Christchurch Press of 19 January 1977 we see, "Defeat on the cards in
Lyttelton-Miss Dewe". Of course, we can all understand why it is on the cards. Govern-
ment members are happy to talk about the Labour Party's selection of candidates, but they
are not at all happy when a member on this side of the House refers to statements that have
appeared in the paper about them and their chances next year. I shall read more: “The
member for Lyttelton, Miss C. E. Dewe, thinks it is certainly on the cards that she may lose
her seat at the next general election if proposed changes of electoral boundaries are
accepted."
Dr Shearer: Read from the Budget. What has that got to do with the debate?
Mr KIRK: That is the situation, and it is indirectly concerned with the Budget debate
because in 1979 the Labour Government will present the Budget, and there is not a chance
that it will make the same mistakes. At that time the member for Lyttelton will be history
because of her lack of interest in the Chatham Islands, because the proposed health centre
has not been established in Lyttelton, because the Rangatira has been taken off the run, and
because of many other things. The employees of the Lyttelton Harbour Board are not
impressed with her performance in trying to defend their jobs and the prosperity of the area.
In Christchurch we want a better deal for our airport. What is wrong with the Minister
of Civil Aviation and other Cabinet Ministers that they cannot support an airport that is
judged to be the best in the world? Last month, in an article in the Press, it was stated that
the Christchurch airport was the most efficient in the world last year, at least as far as the
Australian airline Qantas is concerned. Why is it that such a supportive statement does not
receive the endorsement of the Minister of Civil Aviation? The Christchurch City Council
had to wait for almost 2 years before he allowed it to spend its own money on extending the
international terminal. I believe Government members are holding Christchurch back as a
means of justifying the extensions at Wellington airport. The problems I have mentioned are
very serious.
I now turn to social welfare, one of the matters affecting my electorate most seriously.
Almost the first action of the Minister of Social Welfare was to ask people to tell on each
other, and to inform the department of all they knew.
Dr Shearer: What has that to do with the Budget?
Mr KIRK: I am reviewing the Government's actions last year, and they do relate to the
Budget to a degree.
Dr Shearer: Well, I don't like it.
Mr KIRK: Of course, I can understand why you don't like it. You still have to sort out
your problems with the Minister of Health, whom you criticised so severely.
Dr Shearer: Do I?
Mr KIRK: Yes, you do. As I have mentioned, the first action taken by the Minister of
Social Welfare was to ask people to talk about each other and to tell the Department of
Social Welfare what they learned. Perhaps the National Government supports that kind of
action. Indeed, I believe it does. The second action taken in social welfare was to institute
the cruelly misleading superannuation scheme, that has permanently affected the incomes of
those most in need-the elderly. Almost every weekend a pensioner in my electorate or in
the Christchurch area contacts me to find out when the Minister of Social Welfare intends to
honour his guarantee that nobody will be worse off. But of course the Minister runs away
from that statement now.
Dr Shearer: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. Is it permissible for a member to say,
"Of course, the Minister runs away from that statement now"? I believe such an allegation
lowers the tone of the debate.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: One is not permitted to call into question the courage or other
capabilities of members of the House, but I do not think the suggestion that a Minister has
been running away from something really calls his courage into question.
Mr KIRK: I am concerned-and the member for Invercargill should be
concerned about pensioners in my electorate. He told them one night that they were
greedy pensioners. I cannot see how a pensioner who is receiving considerably less in 1977
than he was in 1975 is greedy. It is no fun for pensioners in my electorate who, because of the


## p. 1949 (#405) ###########################################

4 August
1949
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
severe rip-off in the Budget, are forced this winter to decide whether to use their pensions to
pay for electricity or for food. They cannot do both. I am certain that the mean and
miserable trick the Government has played on those who have expended all their oppor-
tunities in life will not be forgotten. I am certain that the Budget will prove to be the first step
in a long series of very big steps that will remove the National Government from office.
Mr N. P. H. JONES (Invercargill): Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been misrepresented by
the member for Sydenham, who said that I said that pensioners were greedy. If he likes to
check my Hansard he will see that I said that pensioners who expected to receive full
superannuation at 80 percent of the average weekly wage, and also television and telephone
concessions, were being greedy. It is not quite the same thing.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: When a member claims that he has been misrepresented, he
must state what another member said, and correct it, and that is the end of it. There can be
no further discussion. Perhaps I should remind honourable members that a claim of having
been misrepresented can be made only in relation to a current debate and not to anything
said outside the House or in previous debates.
Mr COUCH (Wairarapa): It was interesting to hear the new Opposition spokesman on
agriculture, the member for Sydenham, attack the Minister of Agriculture and the member
for South Canterbury. He may not know much about grass before the cow eats it, but he is
the world authority on what happens to it after that. He knows less about regional
development in the Wairarapa. One wonders if he knows anything at all. If it is true that the
first duty of an Opposition is to oppose, it is no wonder that Labour Party members are so
good at opposing; after all, they have had very little practice at doing anything else in the
past 28 years. On the rare occasions when they have been given a chance to govern they have
governed so badly that the people have taken the first opportunity to put them back where
they belong. So comfortable do they feel in that position that the House was recently treated
to a kind of Opposition pantomime, when even the stirring oratory of the Leader of the
Opposition in this debate could not keep his team members awake. That new production of
Snow White and the sleeping beauties showed, more clearly than anything I can say, the
complete lack of party organisation and original thinking, which will result in their remaining
in Opposition indefinitely.
I would not want anyone to think I am criticising our finest Opposition party. Its
members do their best. It is just a pity that, with the material they have to work with, their
best is so pathetically inadequate. However, I want to make one exception. The member for
Northern Maori has done more than any member on either side of the House to awaken
Maoris to the virtues of the National Party. His complete lack of interest in anything except
widely publicised causes has shown the people in his electorate how little he is concerned
about their day-to-day problems. It is largely because of his non-representation that so many
Maoris are on the general roll or are voting National on the Maori roll. It is rare for a Maori
to be criticised by his people, but the member for Northern Maori has achieved that
distinction more than once. On behalf of the National Party I want to thank him for his
efforts. I hope he will long remain on the Opposition benches to help us still further.
The member said in his Budget speech that the National Party takes no interest in its
Maori members. As an example, he said that no remits on Maori matters came forward at
the last National Party conference. It is not necessary to go to an annual conference of the
National Party to hear remits on Maori affairs. Three weeks before the Dunedin conference,
Maori remits were discussed at Taumarunui, and more will be discussed at Rotorua at the
end of this month. All Maori remits have direct access to the Dominion Council of the
National Party. The Maori people have always had direct access to the hierarchy of the
National Party, and the Maori advisory committee of the party is actively working, without
fuss or fanfare, for Maori people. I suggest that the member for Northern Maori should
reflect on the Labour Party conference. How many remits from Maori delegates were put
through? Delegates at that conference even cut back on general remits so that they could
spend their time defining socialism; and they failed even at that.
It was interesting to read that a Maori delegate from Northern Maori-the member's
electorate-said that the Maori people were not at all happy with the progress they were
making under Labour. Over 40 years ago the Maori people entered into a commitment with
the Labour movement, but the delegate said that if the rate of Maori progress did not match
their needs they would be forced to look elsewhere, and to achieve their rights by any means
they could muster. That in itself is an admission of the lack of interest by the Labour Party. It
is taking the Maori people for granted, and has done so since the last war. The Labour Party
finds that it can raise a useful smokescreen by complaining about the National Government,


## p. 1950 (#406) ###########################################

1950
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
overlooking the fact that for many years Labour members have done nothing practical to
help Maoris.
The Maori people are not getting a solution to their problems from the Labour Party, let
alone from the member for Northern Maori. I have not heard him-has anyone else?—ask
any questions in this House on behalf of his own electorate. Last February the New Zealand
Herald came out with a report by a district nurse on the shocking living conditions of Maori
people in the Northern Maori electorate. I wonder how the member can sleep with those
problems on his conscience-but he does. He must have been aware of the plight of those
people, whom he has represented for 15 years. Nothing has been done for 15 years, yet he
has the audacity to attack the National Government's unparalleled record of effort for the
welfare of Maoris and all other New Zealanders.
Having said that, let me say that it is a privilege for me this evening to follow the man I
consider to be the finest Minister of Maori Affairs we have had for many years. He shuns the
political headlines and prefers to work hard in the background for results, rather than glory.
Consequently, he is respected and trusted even by those who oppose him politically, and his
mana among Maoris is high. Higher still was the mountain of debt and mismanagement left
by the Labour Government. That, coupled with the worldwide recession, has given New
Zealand its hardest time since the depression.
The Budget has been criticised for not doing enough for some sectors, but when one
subtracts what is merely political criticism, such as we heard from the member for
Sydenham, and the uninformed criticism, one sees a different picture. After 3 years of a
Government that gave easy promises, we now have a Government that promises only what it
can perform, and does its best to keep those promises. It has carried out its promise on
national superannuation. The Leader of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition keep harping about the superannuation scheme's gross cost of $930 million, but
fail to mention that it includes the old age pension as well as the former universal
superannuation. They also do not mention that national superannuation is taxable; to say
that would be to tell the facts. It is interesting to hear them attacking the national
superannuation scheme. The Leader of the Opposition has gone on record as saying that he
would change the scheme, but he cannot tell people what he would replace it with-worker
participation only, I suppose. Many women would be robbed overnight of their superannua-
tion if the Labour Party ever took over the Treasury benches.
The Labour Government said that the National Party's superannuation scheme could
not be implemented without massive increases in taxation, but it has been put into operation
without any alteration to the tax structure. Members opposite will not tell the people that
this Government is still using the tax structure that was in operation when they were the
Government. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was quite vocal on this issue in his
Budget speech. His financial ability never ceases to amaze me. He never worries about the
deficit before borrowing. I wonder if he is the architect of the Labour Party's financial
planning. If so, that would explain it. No wonder he is called "Mr Tizard, the hypothetical
financial wizard".
Most New Zealanders will concede that this Government has done the best it could in
difficult financial and economic circumstances. I believe every member in this House will
join with me in complimenting the farming community on its progress. No doubt the
livestock incentive scheme has brought an encouraging response, especially from the larger
farmers. The Government thinks there is still scope for improvement, particularly by dairy
farmers. A steady increase in livestock numbers, coupled with greater farming efficiency-in
conjunction, naturally, with equally determined efforts by other New Zealand industries—is
essential if export sales are to be increased. This Budget continues the Government's basic
policy to help those prepared to increase production. The Minister of Agriculture is
continuing to examine other possibilities for development, and he is to be congratulated on
the way he is getting on with the job, again without fuss or fanfare.
I want to touch briefly on rural housing, which is mentioned in the Budget. A great step
forward has been made because, for the first time, farm workers have the chance of owning
their own homes so that when the time comes for them to retire they need not be forced to
live in rented accommodation-always a disadvantage for workers in our main primary
industries. This provision will help many people to stay on in their chosen work.
For the information of the member for Sydenham, regional development has been a
considerable success in the Wairarapa, and in spite of the economic downturn is still moving
steadily forward. The completed chapters of the resources survey conducted by the
Wairarapa Regional Development Council already show the tremendous potential of the


## p. 1951 (#407) ###########################################

4 August
1951
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
area. Agricultural production could be doubled, forestry could become a major industry in
the future, and there is also great potential for other industry, particularly in the processing
of farm produce. However, potential is one thing, and orderly development, to benefit the
Wairarapa community as a whole and at the same time complement national development, is
another.
In the Budget, the National Government has given high priority to national planning,
and to the relationship between regional and national objectives. Emphasis has been given
to the need for resources surveys in each region, identifying worth-while regional develop-
ment opportunities. Regional suspensory loans and small business grants have been made
available throughout the Wairarapa. These incentive payments have been gladly accepted by
businesses establishing themselves in Carterton, Featherston, and Martinborough. An air of
confidence, engendered by practical recognition of the region by central government, is still
present in the Wairarapa. Government-assisted development encourages other develop-
ment, without the need for financial incentives, so that the initial investment brings a return
far beyond the calculation of the initial outlay—and I am thinking of subcontractors and
others who serve new businesses. The Wairarapa Regional Development Council has strong
links with central government through direct links with Government departments and
agencies, as well as its local member of Parliament.
I pause here for a moment to say that I have continued the good work done by my
predecessor, the late Jack Williams, who did such an outstanding job in the development of
the Wairarapa. This was emphasised the other day when the Minister in Charge of the
Government Printing Office was in the Wairarapa. Delighted as I was to be there, the
occasion was tinged with regret for me because my predecessor was no longer with us. The
next day we were fortunate to have the Minister of Overseas Trade in Carterton to open
Clyde Engineering, associated with Hino Trucks from Japan. That in itself speaks for the
state of regional development in my electorate.
The Budget, as has been outlined by the Minister of Regional Development, directs us
towards the development of our regional resources and is a most valuable step in the right
direction, particularly as this is tied in with national spending as a whole. The Wairarapa
Regional Development Council has pressed for this since it came into existence, but the
Labour Government did nothing about it. Every regional development council is aware of
what other councils are doing to eliminate projects that seem feasible locally, but not
nationally. It is very important that local and national development be co-ordinated.
However, increased production in any sphere must be serviced by all forms of
transport-road, rail, sea, and air-and by processing plant and water resources, to name a
few restricting factors. It is essential to increase production, and the co-ordination
announced in the Budget is a definite way to do that, both regionally and nationally. Strong
regional local government is essential in any major regional development, and it is essential
that it be successful. A great deal of work in this direction has been done by Wairarapa local
bodies, and I am sure that an acceptable form of regional local government will evolve with a
continuation of the co-operative spirit that prevails in the region at present.
Another interesting provision in the Budget, also of particular interest to the
Wairarapa, is the lifting of the 64-kilometre limit on road transport. The new limit of 150
kilometres brings Wellington within the range of many of our transport firms, and will save
expensive double handling of produce from back-country farms. It will also free the railways
to concentrate on the longer haul work they do best, instead of multiple loading and
unloading of small amounts for shorter, broken distances. There will be teething troubles to
start with, but I am sure they will be overcome. New Zealand's only hope for the future lies
in greater production, and the factors I have mentioned are all parts of a continuing
programme to increase productivity and also the New Zealand content of our goods.
Our country cannot be insulated from the effects of overseas prices, so we must make
the best use of our natural resources and advantages to offset our geographical handicaps.
Our main advantages are our climate and our people. Governments, of course, are there
mainly to be shot at, especially at Budget time. Nobody-the Opposition and news media
included-mentions the things one does right, but one is soon told when one does anything
unpopular. Crimes against the voters come under several headings, such as not giving
enough money, giving too much to someone else, or, worst of all, taking $5 from someone
and not giving at least $10 back. Some people still seem to have the idea that if they yell
loudly enough the Government can always find a bit more money to keep them quiet. Any
Government, however, has at least one thing in common with a bank-before it can pay out
money someone has to pay some in. We recently had a Government that did not realise this,


## p. 1952 (#408) ###########################################

1952
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
and we are still fighting our way out of the mess it got us into. Since New Zealand's economy
is, and always has been, based primarily on agriculture we know where most of the money
must come from.
As I have said, Governments exist to be shot at. Consequently their performances tend
to be defensive, because they are usually answering complaints made by the Opposition or
by dissatisfied pressure groups. I know that the National Government has been doing a good
job under considerable difficulties. We warned the people in 1975, before they put us into
power. The Prime Minister spelt out loud and clear that things would be tough, that there
was no easy road back from the mess we were in, and that things would get worse before they
got better. A country that gets itself badly into debt is like any one of us individually. We
either have to make a lot more money, or tighten our belts, or both. Well, making more
money on today's export markets is not easy, so we have had to do a fair bit of belt
tightening. No one likes it, particularly those people who always seem to believe that belt
tightening is a job that should be done by someone else. Yet New Zealanders, or at least the
more intelligent ones, have accepted the need for this, and most of them have not
complained too much. Believe me, if there was another way to get our economy right the
Government would be only too happy to know about it and to use it if practicable. It is much
more fun being popular, like Santa Claus, than being unpopular and miserly, like Scrooge,
but economic survival is not a popularity poll; if it was, bank managers would go around all
day with happy smiles, giving away money with both hands.
I believe that the Government is doing the best it can for the country. The Budget shows
that we are making progress, and therefore I have no intention of being defensive about
what we are doing. The actions we are taking are positive, carefully thought out, and, on the
whole, successful. However, some people are obsessed by the fear that they might not be
getting their share, and the mere idea of cutting down on spending sends them into a panic.
As a country we have to live within our income, and the Budget will help us to do just that. It
makes things tougher for everyone. I would be much more impressed by some of the
complaints from people who claim they cannot afford the necessities of life if the figures for
bar takings and TAB turnover did not keep on climbing. The Budget is a skilful tool to help
us through a difficult period, and I am confident that we will succeed in clearing up the mess
left in 1975 by the sleeping beauties.
The main Opposition speakers so far-if "main" is not too strong a word for them, with
their cracked-record repetition of socialist dogma-have drearily kept on claiming they know
why New Zealand's economy is in its present state. The whole of New Zealand knows that,
which is why the present Opposition is once more back in its appointed place, on its home
benches. The electors well realise that Labour Party members are so busy trying to find a
name that will allow them to be socialists without admitting it that they have no time for
important matters like keeping New Zealand solvent. After all, if they are planning to
socialise everything by degrees the country will lose money anyway, so what is the use of
trying to stay solvent?
I come from a country electorate where life is not too complicated. Back there, when we
see an animal that looks like a sheep, smells like a sheep, grows wool, and is not too bright,
we decide it probably is a sheep. When we hear of a political party that sings the "Red Flag"
at its conferences, claims it is socialist, talks socialism, goes in for woolly thinking, and also is
not too bright, we figure it probably is a socialist party-and all the name changing in the
world will not cure that disease. Sheep also make loud bleating noises when disturbed, and I
offer that piece of information without comment.
There is a simple reason why New Zealand is in its present economic mess. Anyone can
manage an economy-whether of a home or a country-when there is more money than can
be spent, but when times are tough someone is needed who understands that if you spend
more than you earn you soon go broke. It is a tragedy that the Labour Government had no
one who could understand such advanced economic thinking. The voters put National into
power to clean up the mess, realising it would take time. Most of them still realise this,
despite the harsh steps that have been taken in the country's long-term interest. The Budget
is one of those steps, and it is designed for effect, not for show. One of the effects it was not
designed for is the weeping and wailing of the sleepy Opposition-but that is their own idea,
and one of the very few they have ever had.
New Zealanders realise that to ask the Labour Party to cope with our present economic
troubles would be like asking a tenth grade schoolboy rugby player to take over from Bevan
Wilson in the fourth test. It would mean rejecting strength, experience, skill, and achieve-
ment in favour of an unoriginal and guaranteed disaster. The selectors-the voters-took


## p. 1953 (#409) ###########################################

4 August
1953
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that gamble in 1972, but it did not pay off, and in 1975 they changed back to an experienced
and successful team with just enough new blood to give it balance. The Government's
achievements since then have shown clearly that when the voters are not temporarily dazzled
by promises that cannot be kept they will choose wisely and well. This Budget will reinforce
their confidence, and is a further positive step towards making New Zealand once more the
country that such a large majority has shown it wants it to be.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): It was a change to hear a constructive speech, and I
congratulate the member for Wairarapa. When one considers the points made by Opposition
speakers, one realises that there was little foundation to what they were saying. The member
for Sydenham mentioned two heaps of shingle, which were supposed to be a motorway and
which are a monument to the Labour Government. Why has that motorway not been
continued? Let us look at some of the facts. When the National Government took office at
the end of 1975 the estimated deficit for that year was about $1,200 million, the actual deficit
was just over $1,000 million, and the estimated deficit for the following year was $1,400
million. Through good management this Government has brought that figure down to $506
million, and despite substantial tax concessions the Budget reduces that figure again.
The member for Sydenham also mentioned a lack of regional development in the South
Island. The member for South Canterbury showed that was not correct for his electorate,
and it is certainly not correct for mine. On Monday evening I addressed a public meeting,
and said that the Budget greatly assists regional development in the Rangiora district. I
mentioned three specific projects, the first being the Waiau irrigation scheme, on which
$11.3 million will be spent by the Government over the next 15 years, including $300,000 this
financial year. The Budget also provides for a hydro scheme in the Rangiora district, on
which $40 million will be expended. Over the next year the Government is to spend $10
million on oil exploration, some of which will be undertaken in my electorate—and I hope
oil or natural gas will be found.
The member for Heretaunga assumed the role of the expert on wooden bridges, and
talked about the Waiau bridge. Unfortunately, the comments he made were completely
incorrect. He blamed the National Government for lack of care and control of the bridge and
suggested that it was the Government's fault that traffic had been diverted. I refer the
member to a question in the House addressed to the Minister of Works and Development on
5 November 1974. The Minister's reply reads, in part: "The Waiau River bridge is not
regarded as a serious weakness in the principal State highway link through the South
Island." He then said, "The bridge is structurally sound and is free of any load restrictions
for heavy motor vehicles." In the same answer he said, "During the recent troubles❞—and
he was referring to floods-"through traffic on No. 1 highway was able to use an alternative
route through Waiau without serious disruption."
The facts were not stated correctly by the member for Heretaunga, and he should be
ashamed of that, as should his fellow Opposition members. The National Government has
allocated $3 million for bridging work in its first 3 years, and part of that money is for the
Waiau bridge. The programme to replace the bridge is well under way; the approaches have
been completed and the first drilling will start shortly. The programme was started during
the first year of the National Government's term of office. So much for the matters raised by
Opposition members.
I want to talk in greater detail about fishing, a topic that has not been mentioned by any
Opposition speaker in this debate. It is not surprising that Opposition members have not
referred to the topic, when one compares the success story in the short time the National
Government has been in office with the disastrous failure of the 3 years of the Labour
Government. As I recall, the member for Christchurch Central did not mention the Budget
provisions for fishing, although he was the former Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the
Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries. Perhaps he has forgotten some of the facts relating to
the Labour Government's administration. When that Government took office in 1972, fin-
fishing exports totalled 11 302 tonnes, and when it left office 3 years later the figure had
fallen to 10 478 tonnes. That illustrates the Labour Government's disregard for this most
important industry. I shall compare that with the progress that has taken place during the
short time National has been the Government. Export earnings from fish and fish products
amounted to about $26 million in 1975, and in 12 months that figure rose by 62 percent to
almost $38 million last year. The Government has also introduced legislation to bring about
New Zealand's 200-mile economic zone. Although that legislation is basically concerned
with conventional fishing and the fishing industry, there is potential in other areas.
Mr Courtney: Fish farming.


## p. 1954 (#410) ###########################################

1954
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr QUIGLEY: If the member for Nelson will contain himself for a few minutes I shall
refer to some of the statements he made about fishing, which were completely incorrect. A
recent article in Catch 77 stated that Norway has 160 salmon farms, with 4000 employees,
and that last year 1800 tonnes of salmon were harvested. Some work of this kind is being
done at Kaiapoi in the Rangiora electorate, and to a lesser extent in the Oamaru electorate.
The overseas figures illustrate the potential for countries like New Zealand. That type of
industry will be helped by the special Budget provision of a fishing development grant of
$200,000 this year to subsidise specified projects. That grant is aimed at exploring and
providing new fisheries, researching new gear and fishing techniques, training people in
specialised fishing methods, and developing new products and processes.
Mr Hunt: How will that help the pensioners?
Mr QUIGLEY: I do not think many pensioners are actively engaged in commercial
fishing.
Mr Hunt: They all want to eat fish.
Mr QUIGLEY: I should have thought that the member for New Lynn would realise
that. Much research has been done by departments, and the Fishing Industry Board has
directed practical research into mussel farming. The Budget will help the board, because
there is an extra subsidy for that type of project and other avenues that the board is
investigating. Mussel farming has developed fast in a very short time. There are now
approximately 15 marine farms, expected to produce up to 300 tonnes of green mussels this
year. The Marlborough Regional Development Council forecast potential growth as 10 000
tonnes. That figure is not impossible of achievement, when one considers that last year Spain
produced 200 000 tonnes of blue mussels, a species inferior to ours. If an industry like this,
which has already been started, is further expanded it is bound to have substantial export
potential. I was disappointed that the Leader of the Opposition-and the Pelorus Sound is in
his Tasman electorate-did not even mention fishing or mussel farming. I wonder why.
Clearly he is not interested in this project in his electorate; and neither was the Labour
Government, because during its 3 years in office it did little or nothing for the fishing
industry generally. The Marine Farming Act was passed in 1971, and it was not until the
National Government came into office that marine farms were set up.
Mr Lange: They've been going since 1968.
Mr QUIGLEY: Were they operating illegally? Apart from the farms I have referred to,
100 licences or leases are at present before the department, and who is the member who is
most active in supporting the cause of those fishermen?
Mr Courtney: The member for Nelson.
Mr QUIGLEY: The member for Nelson? He may be doing a little, but it certainly is not
the Leader of the Opposition, the member for the area. All the deputations go to the
member for Marlborough, who is taking a real interest. The Budget proposals relating to the
fishing industry are only part of a total package that the Government has developed to boost
fishing as an export industry. A series of measures have been designed to put our fishing
industry in a position to capitalise on the declaration of New Zealand's 200-mile zone—the
fourth biggest in the world. I was interested to read an article published in the Ashburton
Guardian on 2 August, some days after the Budget was released on 21 July. The heading is:
"No plan for fishing". The author is the Opposition spokesman on fishing, the member for
Nelson. The article does not mention the substantial incentives contained in the Budget. In
fact, it does not mention the Budget. I wonder why. Perhaps the member for Nelson, who is
the Opposition spokesman on fishing, has not read the Budget and does not understand what
it provides, and what these packages are.
Mr Courtney: Tell them what I said.
Mr QUIGLEY: I will later.
Mr Hunt: Go through it one by one.
Mr QUIGLEY: I will go through you shortly. The National Government's first move
was the announcement in September 1976 of a scheme to import duty-free boats, and as at 20
June 1977 the importation of eight boats worth about $9 million had been approved, the
smallest of them just under 23 metres. For the benefit of the member for Nelson, who does
not appear to know much ahout the fishing industry, in 1975 only nine fishing boats of more
than 24 metres in length were owned by New Zealanders. The second step taken by the
Government was the appointment of a Minister of Fisheries, someone with full Cabinet
status who is able to speak for this important industry. The Minister has done an extremely
good job for fishing in a very short time.
Mr Hunt: Where is he?


## p. 1955 (#411) ###########################################

4 August
1955
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr QUIGLEY: For the benefit of the member for New Lynn, who apparently cannot
read newspapers or does not read newspapers, the Minister of Fisheries is at present
overseas, visiting countries that are interested in our fishing waters. At present the Minister
is in the United Kingdom, and soon he will be going to Japan to discuss with the Japanese, as
will the Prime Minister next weekend, the prospects for their fishing in New Zealand waters.
I wonder,what the attitude of the Opposition is to a continuation of Japanese fishing in New
Zealand waters. Do Opposition members say that the Japanese should fish here, but exclude
our agricultural products from their markets? The third major achievement by the National
Government in a relatively short time was the introduction of a Bill providing for a 200-mile
exclusive economic zone.
Mr Hunt: Oh, come on!
Mr QUIGLEY: Does the member for New Lynn appreciate the importance of a
measure like that?
Mr Hunt: I do, and I support it.
Mr QUIGLEY: Then what did you say "come on" for? The fourth major achievement
in the series of provisions to help this industry is the Budget extension to 31 March 1979 of
the provision relating to the duty-free importation of larger fishing boats, giving the industry
an opportunity for long-term planning. Conditions are imposed, of course, and I shall refer
to some of them. The boats have to be more than 21 metres long. The persons who import
them have to be established operators or companies, and, in the interests of conservation
and management, there will be requirements on the fishing species that may be caught by
these boats, and the locations in which they shall fish. This is part of an approach to
encourage the New Zealand fishing industry out into the waters now being fished by foreign
fishing craft. The non-fulfilment of these conditions within a period of 5 years will render the
importer liable to repay the equivalent of the duty.
Another important part of this policy announcement relates to the possibility of building
similar vessels in New Zealand. That is part of the policy on the importation of larger fishing
boats, and has to be considered in the context of another major Budget proposal-the
provision of suspensory loans of up to 40 percent for fishing boats built in New Zealand. I see
the member for Nelson nodding his head. At long last we have found something he agrees
with. In an article, the member for Nelson said that apparently there were no financial
incentives or support to encourage new blood into the industry, and that little thought had
been given to the expansion of training, or to research. Obviously, the member did not read
the Budget.
Boats qualifying for the scheme I have mentioned must be at least 21 metres in length.
The policy is designed to encourage the building of these boats in New Zealand, but is not a
subsidy for the boatbuilding industry. Conditions will be imposed on the person having a
boat built. The availability of the loans will encourage the construction of vessels by New
Zealand shipyards, and will also give impetus to the expansion of the New Zealand fishing
industry, which, as I said earlier, is largely dominated by foreign fishing craft. To qualify, the
boat must be a new and permanent addition to the New Zealand fleet, it must be based in a
New Zealand port, and the applicant must have the necessary expertise and financial
stability to operate profitably in an export-oriented industry. The policy determines catch
targets of eligible species. The more popular varieties such as snapper or terakihi will be
excluded. The catch targets will have to be achieved before the loan is written off.
It is interesting to note what some of the prominent fishing industry leaders have had to
say about this announcement. They doubted that the measure would promote much local
construction, and mentioned the dearer prices for boats built in New Zealand, the longer
delivery time, and the fact that suspensory loans are taxable. The relevant point is that this
package forms part of the total concept, and, as I said, gives assistance to the purchaser of a
boat and widens his choice. He now has an opportunity to place an order in New Zealand, or
import a boat of a comparable size. The criticism overlooks the fact that in the past the
boatbuilding industry has had little incentive to compete, and there has been very little
demand for bigger boats until very recently. The provisions will be a substantial stimulus for
the New Zealand industry. It is interesting to see what happened to the boatbuilding industry
during the 3 years of the Labour Govrnment. In December 1975 the president of the New
Zealand Federation of Commercial Fishermen said that the fishing fleet in Timaru had
dwindled from 39 to 22 boats, and that 10 of those needed to be replaced by bigger units
capable of long-range operations.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: What was the member doing?
Mr QUIGLEY: I have been asked what the member for Timaru was doing. He did not


## p. 1956 (#412) ###########################################

1956
4 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
mention fishing when he spoke in the debate. He was not interested during the 3 years when
he was in the Government, and he is not interested today. It is time his own commercial
fishermen realised that. Another provision in the Budget is the removal of the $20,000
financial limit on Rural Bank loans for re-engining, and for gear and equipment. That is an
extremely sensible step. The Budget also provides an extension to the concept of the farm
settlement loan, which is now available for people in the fishing industry. As from 1
November 1977, applications can be made for up to 80 percent of the value of a vessel, plus
equipment and gear. Of course, it requires an applicant to have substantial cash himself.
Mr Hunt: Yes, he needs to be a millionaire to pay such high interest rates.
Mr QUIGLEY: The scheme is designed to provide opportunities for competent,
qualified employees already within the fishing industry to acquire their own boats.
Mr Hunt: Name one.
Mr QUIGLEY: Does the member for New Lynn not support that policy?
Mr Hunt: High interest rates, no.
Mr QUIGLEY: The other side of the coin is the new policy in the Budget designed to
encourage fishermen to save for the purchase of a first fishing vessel. They can put away up
to $4,000 a year and build up a sum of up to $50,000, and take advantage of either a grant-
Mr Courtney: How many years will that take?
Mr QUIGLEY: or a tax rebate scheme. The member for Nelson asks how long it will
take. It will take some time. If a person is prepared to save and is interested in getting into
the fishing industry, surely he should be encouraged to do so. Does the member for Nelson
not want new entrants into the fishing industry? I suggest to him that this scheme will
encourage new entrants. Many more provisions are contained in the Budget. There is a
training scheme, an extension of something introduced in last year's Budget. This time there
is a subsidy of up to $50 a week for persons who are prepared to go to courses for deep-
fishing qualifications--skippers' licences and mates' licences.
What we want to do, and what the Budget is designed to do, is build up a viable New
Zealand fishing industry. There is potential for it, and certainly there are fish off the New
Zealand coast; if there were not, countries like Japan, Russia, and Korea would not come
thousands of miles to fish in our waters. Many of those countries are being excluded from
their traditional fishing markets and that is why they are coming down to New Zealand. We
want to build up an industry that will take advantage of the fish that are there for the benefit
of New Zealand and New Zealanders. This industry has substantial potential.
Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori): This evening I have listened to two Government
members whom I respect making speeches which really were beneath them. I am in a
quandary as to whom to deal with first. Probably I will deal with the member for Wairarapa.
I enjoyed his essay-as it was, because he read every word of it. I was reminded of the time
when I was at primary school and had to read my essays to the schoolmaster. From time to
time I was complimented on my story. We had a similar exercise in the House tonight, and I
compliment the member for Wairarapa on his wonderful essay. However, I now turn to the
contents of his essay, about which I have spoken to him before. He was keen to denounce
the former Labour Government's performance, and claimed that it had done nothing of
benefit to the Maori people. I realise that the member for Wairarapa was still an infant in
1935. He can contradict me if I am wrong, but in trying to assess his age I calculated that he
was an All Black in 1947. I assumed that he was then about 19 or 20 and that he was born in
about 1927 and would have been an infant during the period of the first Labour Government
a Government which made it possible for the Maori people to be equal with the
Europeans. I can appreciate that the member for Wairarapa is not aware of that fact,
because he was then still a boy. If I am wrong, and in fact he was much older at the time, I
shall have a little more difficulty in understanding why he said what he did say tonight.
In the early 1930s the country suffered from a depression, and the Maori people were
the greatest victims of that depression. That position arose because of the policies of the
preceding Government, but the first Labour Government took positive action and improved
the conditions of the Maori people. In 1935 the Labour Government enacted the Maori
Housing Act.
Mr Allen: That was in 1937.
Mr REWETI: I am sure the member for Tauranga does not remember that either, but
the Act is still in operation today.
Mr Allen: Which Act are you talking about?
Mr REWETI: The Act that provided houses for the Maori people, which has been
adopted by each succeeding Government. It ensured that the Maori people can live in


## p. 1957 (#413) ###########################################

4 August
1957
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
conditions equal to those enjoyed by their European counterparts.
Mr Couch: Go and have a look for it.
Mr REWETI: I am speaking to the member for Wairarapa, and it is for me to say that
he should go and have a look for it.
Mr Couch: I did have a look.
Mr REWETI: Well, it is evident that the member did not see very much. This evening
the member for Wairarapa also said that the Maori advisory council of the National Party
submitted some remits through the Taumarunui Branch to the National Party conference. In
July 1974 that same Maori advisory council sent a deputation to the present Deputy Prime
Minister. The Deputy Prime Minister may not recall it now, but if he wants the records I
shall give them to him next week, or lay them on the table of the House if he wishes. At that
time the Maori advisory council of the National Party put an ultimatum to the hierarchy of
the National Government. I have those records with me.
Mr Couch: Give them to me.
Mr REWETI: I shall give them to the member in the hope that it will bring to an end the
derogatory remarks about the Labour Party. The deputation from the Maori advisory
council of the National Party to the then hierarchy said that it had no confidence whatever in
members of the National Party, except for one man, the present Minister of Maori Affairs,
and that if the National Party did not come to heel something would be done about it.
Members of the deputation said that they wanted the National Party to support the member
for Northern Maori, then the Minister of Maori Affairs, because his legislation would be of
benefit to the Maori people. Tonight, two members of the National Government, respected
by the Maori people, have said that nothing to benefit the Maori people was done during the
time the member for Northern Maori was Minister of Maori Affairs. If I were permitted to
use stronger terms, I would, but I shall just say that such an accusation is disgraceful.
The member for Wairarapa and other Government members have been castigating
Opposition members for falling asleep, but I can remember the formation of a special club
by three members of the National Government of the day. It comprised the present Prime
Minister, the previous Minister of Internal Affairs, and the late Sir Leslie Munro, all of
whom were asleep during a division. That is a very select club of sleepers. It consisted of
senior Government members, including the present Prime Minister. I think he is the
president of that club, because he is the only surviving member. Those are the facts. I am
sure that Government members are being forgetful, or do not want to remember, because
that happening shows the public that the present Prime Minister fell asleep on the job. If he
had been in another job he would have got the sack. However, he is still in the box seat.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 1958 (#414) ###########################################

1958.
5 August
Notice of Motion—Admissibility
FRIDAY, 5 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 9 a.m.
Prayers.
BUSINESS OF THE HOUSE
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): I think I should give an indication to
the House of the business proposed for next week. To the best of my knowledge the Budget
debate will continue through the week. We will take private members' notices of motion on
Wednesday afternoon and local Bills on Thursday afternoon.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): Has the Acting Prime Minister
been able to consult the Prime Minister about his intentions on the two Government notices
of motion now standing on the Order Paper? A matter of particular importance is whether
the debate on the second one is to be resumed.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): It is likely that the first notice of
motion will be debated when the Prime Minister returns. As far as I am aware, there is no
intention of continuing the debate on the second.
NOTICE OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That
this House notes the statement by the president of the Labour Party in the New Zealand
Herald on 3 August in which he effectively conceded that the new Te Atatu seat, which
comprises part of the National-held Waitemata electorate, will remain a National seat after
the 1978 election, and congratulates the president of the Labour Party on making at least one
probably correct prediction in what was otherwise a totally inaccurate statement.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I should like to see
substantiation of the allegation made, because I have never made such a statement.
[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! Will the honourable member please repeat what he has said?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: The member for Waitemata said that the president of the
Labour Party- and I think he was referring to me and not the local president-
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Yes, that's correct.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: He said I had made a statement about the outcome of the Te
Atatu seat, which was reported in the New Zealand Herald. I should like to see substantia-
tion of that allegation, because I have not made any such statement.
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): If the member for Roskill had listened to my notice
of motion he would have heard me say "in which he effectively conceded". That was not a
quote, and if he cares to read the statement he gave to the press-assuming he wrote it in the
first place- he will notice that he made no reference to the Te Atatu seat, which comprises
part of the Waitemata electorate at present held by National. In my notice of motion I said
that he has effectively conceded that that seat will continue to be a National seat, and I am
willing to debate that statement in the notice of motion at any time he is ready.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn): I think the member for Waitemata, by his own comments, has
shown that the notice of motion should not be allowed. Standing Order 103, which relates to
notices not allowed, provides that notices of motion shall not contain any statement of facts
or name of any person unless they are strictly necessary to render the notice intelligible and
can be authenticated. The member for Waitemata has stated, or at least implied, that in his
notice of motion he did not quote from the article concerned. I believe that is the key point:
there is no quote, merely an implication. If the notice of motion is accepted everybody will
be able to take any statement in a newspaper and interpret it in any way he wishes or as it
suits him.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): Certain notices of motion are not allowed under
Standing Order 103. In his notice of motion the member for Waitemata said that the member
for Roskill had made a certain statement about the new Te Atatu seat. The member for
Roskill then rose and said he had made no such statement, and he quite properly asked the
member for Waitemata to produce evidence to substantiate the allegation he had made. The


## p. 1959 (#415) ###########################################

5 August
1959
Notice of Motion- Admissibility
member for Waitemata, although he has spoken on the point of order, has not produced
such evidence. I believe he should be asked to produce the newspaper article of 3 August,
from which he said he quoted. In other words, the member for Waitemata has made an
allegation that has been denied by the member for Roskill, and I believe that the proper
course to be followed, if the member for Waitemata cannot produce evidence to substantiate
his statement, is to withdraw the notice. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! There is far too much silly din. I am trying to listen to the
member addressing the Chair.
Mr PREBBLE: As I understand it, the essence of the matter is that the member for
Waitemata gave notice of a motion based on what he believed were words left out of a
statement in the newspaper. He therefore drew an inference and said that, based on the
article that had appeared in the New Zealand Herald, the member for Roskill had made a
certain statement. The member for Roskill has denied making such a statement, and has
requested that the newspaper article be produced so that the allegation can be substantiated.
If the member for Waitemata is unable to do that, he should be asked to withdraw the
notice. If he is not prepared to do that, I suggest most strongly, Mr Speaker, that you should
strike it out.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I do not think the matter requires any
further debate. The procedures of the House give you, Mr Speaker, and your staff the
opportunity of a preliminary scrutiny of notices of motion intended to be given. Objection is
sometimes taken when a notice of motion is given, as has been done this morning by the
member for Roskill, but I am sure you and your staff have had the opportunity of looking
into the matter of authentication as is required under Standing Order 103, and I do not think
any more debate on the matter is required.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): The matter is really quite clear and simple. There is no difficulty
in producing the statement.
Mr Hunt: Where is the word "Te Atatu"?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I have already reproved one group, and I now say to another
group that we are getting into this bad habit of interjecting en masse when a point of order is
being raised or spoken to.
Mr BIRCH: There is no difficulty in producing the relevant statement, which is well
known and has been widely read. It does not in any way offend the provisions of Standing
Order 103, which defines what can and cannot be included in a notice of motion. The notice
of motion contains nothing unbecoming or offensive, as defined in Standing Order 103(a). It
does contain a statement of fact about a statement made in the New Zealand Herald of 3
August which, as I said, can be produced for you. It does not anticipate an Order of the Day.
If it does draw an inference, which was the point made initially by the member for New Lynn
on the Standing Order, it seems to me it is not out of order in terms of our Standing Orders.
Mr SPEAKER: I must say that far too much of my time is already being spent going
through with my staff a number of these jab and gibe notices of motion, which have become
so fashionable in recent times and cover so many pages of print in our Order Paper, but this
notice of motion was not referred to me, and I shall be quite happy to look at it. The fact that
it contains no quotation is not a point of importance. I think we have too many quotations in
our notices of motion and questions. Nevertheless, the matter has been raised as to whether
or not the notice of motion complies with Standing Order 103, and I shall happily have a look
at it- well, not happily, but I shall have a look at it.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Air Services-Los Angeles to London
1. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: What measures are being taken to renew the Los Angeles to London service using
Air New Zealand aircraft on charter to British Airways?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
The British Airways lease of Air New Zealand DC10 aircraft does not expire until April
1979. A possible renewal of the lease is a commercial matter to be dealt with by the two
airlines themselves in due course.
Mr Kirk: Is the Minister completely withdrawing from the responsibility of trying to
keep this and similar services running?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I wish to say two things to the honourable member. First,
the member should do his homework and learn the position regarding corporations.


## p. 1960 (#416) ###########################################

1960
5 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Mr Bailey: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The Minister of Transport is contravening the
Standing Orders when he says that a member of this House should do his homework.
Hon. David Thomson: A question is asked of a Minister to get advice from him. I think
the Minister began his answer with very good advice to the member asking the supplemen-
tary question. He indicated that information was available to the member and that it could
have been found by him if he had really searched for it. I think the Minister's answer was in
order.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: I would suggest that, apart from any other factor, the answer was
likely to be provocative, and therefore, on the grounds that we do not do anything that
would incite disorderly conduct, it should be ruled out of order.
Mr Latter: I believe that the Minister's opening remarks were quite in order in view of
the continual list of questions asked by the member for Sydenham on matters relating to
NAC. The Minister would think that, as the member for Sydenham has asked so many
questions on this subject, he would have looked at the NAC Act. The supplementary
question suggested lack of ministerial responsibility, and I believe the Minister was intending
to say that, if the member had done his homework, he would have known what the role of
the Minister was under the NAC Act. I believe it was a fair opening to an answer.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not need further help on this matter. Standing Order 81 states that
answers "shall be concise, confined to the subject-matter of the question asked, and shall not
contain any argument”—whatever that may be "or controversial matter". Honourable
members do overlook the fact that questions are frequently somewhat provocative, but that
is not strictly relevant. The point has been raised. The statement was slightly controversial or
provocative and, therefore, was slightly out of order. The Minister may see fit to withdraw
the expression.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: If it was offensive I withdraw it. If the honourable
member would look carefully at the Minister's responsibility for corporations such as Air
New Zealand and NAC he would find that these commercial practices-if I can call them
that- are negotiated by the corporations involved. Under previous Ministers- including the
member for Henderson, who was Minister of Civil Aviation when I was spokesman for the
National Opposition- these matters were carefully kept out of the political arena. I always
received from the member for Henderson the information I required, but I did not use it, for
the simple reason that we do not want politics to intrude in this matter.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is it not a fact that the leasing arrangement with British Airways,
which enables a New Zealand-designed craft to fly to London, depends on a continuation of
air rights between New Zealand and America, which are negotiated between the Govern-
ments?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I should have thought that the honourable member
would know exactly how they are negotiated, but my point was that these negotiations are
kept out of the political arena. No one would appreciate more than the member for
Henderson the fact that for many years and for the good of the nation, Ministers have not
allowed these things to get into the political arena.
Mr Latter: Returning to the original question, could the Minister clarify the word
"renew"? Would any advice on this come initially from Air New Zealand and would it be
done as a commercial matter?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Yes, this would be a negotiation between BAC and Air
New Zealand, and I am sure that the member for Henderson would confirm that that is the
case. Air rights are a different matter, and Governments take responsibility for them.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Bearing in mind that the organisations concerned are commercial
enterprises, is the Minister not concerned about strong suggestions that Air New Zealand is
likely to lose this charter?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I am concerned with any matter that may be to the
detriment of Air New Zealand's future, and here is a case where the honourable member
wants me to answer publicly in a way that might damage future negotiations between two
airlines.
Mr Kirk: As the Minister has indicated he has no responsibility for directing Air New
Zealand or NAC, can he confirm that, at the SIPA conference in March of this year, he said
he was responsible for trimming the services of NAC?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: That question is remote from the original question. As I
said to the honourable member earlier, if he would look at the Act covering these
corporations he would see exactly where the Minister's responsibility lies.
Mr SPEAKER: The Minister mentioned that the last supplementary question was


## p. 1961 (#417) ###########################################

5 August
1961
Oral Answers to Questions
remote from the original question, and it certainly was not in elucidation, as indeed most
supplementary questions are not. A Minister is not obliged to answer a question if he
considers it remote from the original subject or not in elucidation. I myself do not intrude,
because I would be jumping up and down like a yo-yo on every question, and it is well known
that members do not like that from the Chair. I hope that members will exercise a little more
discretion.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Maori Affairs Department-Prosecutions for Theft
2. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Maori Affairs: Were any
prosecutions commenced by the Department of Maori Affairs for theft in the period 1 April
1976 to 31 March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Maori Affairs): Two prosecutions for theft were
initiated by the department in the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March 1977. Both offenders were
convicted and restitution was ordered. Full recovery has been made by the department in
one case and legal action for recovery is being taken in the other.
Hon. M. Rata: Were the thefts the responsibility of staff members or did they relate to
property on farm holdings which would be the responsibility of others, although the
properties are administered by the department?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: I took the thefts as being the responsibility of officers of the
department.
Hon. M. Rata: Not of others?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: No.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: In telling the House that he initiated the prosecutions, am I right
in interpreting that to mean that the Minister supplied the police with information which
they judged to be sufficient to warrant the laying of information?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: No, I believe that the questioner has not understood the answer.
The member for Northern Maori asked whether the thefts were committed by officers of the
department or whether it was farm property on properties run by the department. I said that
I took it that the questioner was wanting to know about officers of the department. In my
answer I said that the prosecutions for theft were initiated by the department. The Minister
had nothing to do with it.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Education Shortage of Relieving Teachers
3. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Does he have any
plans to meet the growing problem of shortage of relief teachers?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The problem of finding sufficient
relieving teachers at this time of the year is not new. It occurs each year in the winter term as
colds and influenza take their toll of the teaching force. My department is in regular
consultation with the education boards and is holding discussions with the teachers'
organisation to find ways of minimising the problem.
Mr Marshall: Is the situation this year no worse than before, and would it have nothing
to do with the cutting of day relief teachers for 12 months?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The fact that the day relief scheme has been restored has
obviously meant that we require more relieving teachers this year than last year. The
problem is not new. We have always had this type of problem in the winter term.
Mr Wellington: Is it not a fact that in some areas-for example Porirua, Otara, and
Mangere, it has traditionally been difficult to recruit relieving teachers, and are those not
the very areas on which the Minister and his departmental officers are concentrating?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: There are some areas—and the ones that are immediately
identifiable are Otara and Mangere, and Porirua and Wainuiomata- where we have
difficulty, partly because there are not in those areas large numbers of people who wish to
undertake relieving teaching work. There is also the difficulty of travelling. A third factor is
that there is some difficulty in persuading people to go into those areas. However, today we
are having discussions with officers of the New Zealand Educational Institute and the
Auckland Education Board to find out how many relieving teachers are required for those
areas. Some education boards have assured me that they do not have problems in their
districts.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1962 (#418) ###########################################

1962
5 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Ridge Road, Paremoremo-Rubbish Tip
4. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Finance: In view of the fact
that the Town and Country Planning Appeal Board has turned down the Takapuna City
Council's plan to build a rubbish tip at Ridge Road, Paremoremo, can he assure the
residents of the area that the Local Authorities Loans Board's approval for such a scheme,
involving $1.2 million, can no longer proceed?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Acting Minister of Finance): As far as I can see this is not a
matter on which the Minister of Finance can give an assurance. That is more properly for the
local body concerned. The facts are that the loan for $1.2 million was approved in 1975 for
the purchase of land for general, civic, and community purposes. Although the land was
required primarily for refuse disposal, the council indicated that if it was not used for that
purpose it would still be required for recreation and reserve purposes. The key point which
the member might wish to note is that the condition attached to the loan prevented its use for
refuse disposal until the Auckland Regional Authority's plans for such purposes are
approved.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: In what respect does the primary purpose of the application for a
loan- namely, to provide a rubbish tip-equate with the alternative proposal for rest and
recreation?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am not sure. The city council may well have assumed that
there would be a conflict of interest, but it indicated that there would be another require-
ment if its primary need was not met and that it would in any case want the land for
recreational purposes before or after the creation of any tip.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Television Programmes Overlapping
5. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Does he realise that two
excellent Sunday night programmes on TV1 and TV2— the "Father Brown" series and "The
Glittering Prizes"-overlap by only about 15 minutes, and, in view of the undoubted
popularity of both programmes, would it not be possible to resolve the clash before next
Sunday?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I am delighted that the member
enjoys both programmes. I am advised by the Broadcasting Corporation that ways of
effecting a junction point for the two programmes have been carefully considered but have
not proved practicable. The reason is the difficult scheduling problems associated with the
six-episode series of "The Glittering Prizes", which are not of the usual standard durations.
Richard Walls: Would the Minister agree that this request by the member for New
Lynn, which seems to involve a personal preference, would, if the Minister interfered,
constitute a blatant breach of the Broadcasting Act and be overt political interference with
broadcasting?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I tried to cover the point that I am being advised by the
Broadcasting Corporation. I have drawn the matter to its attention and it has given me a firm
assurance that junction times are a matter of special concern. The chairman has reviewed the
situation, and he intends working hard on the whole problem of junction points. The fact is,
however, that "The Glittering Prizes" is 75 minutes long, and that makes it extremely
difficult to effect that junction.
Mr Hunt: Could the Minister perhaps suggest to the controllers of programmes that it is
precisely this sort of clash that makes their organisation seem at present to be excessively
bureaucratic and stuffy?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: If this is not interference I should like to express my own
opinion. I do not agree with what the member says. The TV services face an extremely
difficult task. I gather that the corporation has looked at it precisely because a member of
this House raised the issue. The times have been reviewed to see if these Sunday program-
mes might be rearranged. The fact is we have two channels, and you cannot see both at the
same time. It is extremely difficult to get these junction points covered. The corporation
assures me and I am sure the House would be interested-that it has carefully covered the
point of not putting like against like. These two programmes are not similar. One is
considered light entertainment and the other contemporary drama. From that point of view


## p. 1963 (#419) ###########################################

5 August
1963
Oral Answers to Questions
they are meeting the wishes of the House and the country that like should not be put against
like. But in a two-channel system one eventually has to choose.
Hon. H. J. Walker: Would the Minister confirm that had the 1973 Broadcasting Act,
introduced by the Labour Government, required complementary instead of competitive
programming, this complaint would not have arisen?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I hope the corporation will do its best to ensure the best
programme balance, which the present Act directs them to do.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: As the Minister is discussing the matter with the two television
services, could he advise them that complaints have been received that "Father Brown" is
screened too late at night, and could he ask if it could be screened earlier?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I am not discussing this matter with the corporation, I am
simply putting forward the views of members and asking for the corporation's advice, which
I am transmitting as clearly as I can to the House.
Mr Falloon: Would the Minister confirm that under the Labour Government, when
there was no Minister of Broadcasting, this question could not have been asked?
Mr SPEAKER: There is not the faintest shred of elucidation being sought in that
question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Social Welfare Assistance for Elderly Former Psychiatric Patients
6. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What financial
assistance is his department prepared to make to elderly patients with limited assets, who,
following treatment in a psychiatric hospital, are ready for discharge but require further care
in rest homes?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): It is regretted that such payments
were rejected by the Labour Government when submissions were made to them in 1973-74
and 1974-75. However, the question of financial assistance for patients transferred from
psychiatric hospitals to rest homes is currently under examination by the National Govern-
ment. Until this examination is finalised I am not in a position to make any further comment.
Mrs Batchelor: Can the Minister advise when the investigation will be finished, and
when we can expect some information?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: As I have already said, the matter is currently under examina-
tion. When this is completed I will be in a position to make further comment. I regret that
when application was made for this payment, it was declined by the Labour Government.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is it a fair summary of the Minister's original reply, which was
repeated in his supplementary answer, that a situation that he regrets remains unchanged?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It is because of my regret that the matter is being investigated to
see whether something can be done to assist these people.
Mr Wellington: Can the Minister outline the organisation that made representations to
the Labour Government, which were subsequently turned down?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I do not have a list with me, but if the member would like to ask
another question I would be happy to give him those names.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a matter for regret that in 20 months the National
Government has taken no action?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I am sure it is asking too much to expect the National
Government to correct in 18 months all the faults of the Labour Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Chateau Commodore and Air New Zealand
7. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Can he confirm that Air New Zealand has been involved in negotiations concerning
the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
Air New Zealand has not been involved in negotiations involving the Chateau Commodore
in Christchurch, and has no interest in the purchase of this hotel.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Import Deposit Scheme
8. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Customs: What reduction
in imports does the Government estimate to have occurred as a direct result of the import


## p. 1964 (#420) ###########################################

1964
5 August
Oral Answers to Questions
deposit scheme in its first year in operation, and what further saving does it anticipate will
occur in the 6 months commencing 2 August 1977?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): It is impossible to estimate precisely the
extent to which imports have been reduced as a result of the scheme, as this is dependent on
the action of a considerable number of importers. It should also be borne in mind that some
goods were exempted from the scheme on 30 July 1976. However, in the first year of the
scheme's operation, imports of those goods which were still subject to the scheme as at 1
February 1977 were $117 million, representing a reduction of 2 percent over the similar 1976
year, whereas total private imports for the same period increased by 30.3 percent to $3,098.1
million for the year ended January 1977. Imports of goods covered by the scheme have
shown an upward trend in recent months, due in part to the ability of importers to turn over
deposits made on previous imports. It is expected that the scheme will continue to be a
restraining influence on ordering and stocking policies, but I am sure the House appreciates
that we cannot predict with any real accuracy what the volumes for the items concerned will
be for the next 6 months.
Mr MacDonell: In view of the definite promise made by the Government that the
amount spent on imports would be reduced below the 1975 level, can the Minister indicate
whether this has occurred?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: This question covers the whole gamut of the Government's
import policy. The undertaking given was that the Government would review the import
deposit scheme. That has been done, and now a decision has been made to extend it.
Mr Hunt: Can the Minister answer directly the member for Dunedin Central, who
asked whether this was not an example of the Government promising to reduce imports, and
then, not being able to do so, breaking another promise?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: The Government's import policy is a matter for the Minister
of Trade and Industry. This question referred only to the import deposit scheme, and I have
already stated what the Government's undertaking was in respect to that scheme.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Australian Visitors Group Tour Costs
9. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Tourism: What steps has he taken to
hold group tour costs for Australians visiting New Zealand to a level that is competitive with
the more sought after destinations by Australians which include Indonesia, Singapore, and
Hawaii?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism): I do not exercise control over the pricing
of coach tours offered in Australia by the various tour operators. However, the general
manager of the Tourist and Publicity Department called a meeting of leading tour operators
on 25 May, at which factors that could be contributed to the present fall in patronage were
considered. This included pricing, competition from other destinations, trans-Tasman fare
levels and sectors, and research and promotion. These aspects are currently being explored
and developed by the department. However, while there has been a recent "softness" in the
Australian market, this is under continuing study and New Zealand is still the main holiday
destination for Australians.
Mr Kirk: Could the Minister advise whether the rate of inflation and the effect this has
on costs was discussed at the meeting on 25 May?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: The point I made at the conference was that the cost of tours
promoted to other destinations such as Hawaii was on a transport basis only, whereas the
cost of coach tours offered in New Zealand included accommodation, travel, and meals.
Mr Falloon: The question implies that the Government should subsidise internal travel.
Would the Minister agree that it would not be practicable for the taxpayer to subsidise
internal tour costs?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: I agree emphatically that it would not be in the taxpayers'
interests.
Mr Kirk: Is the Minister aware that factors like doubling the transport cost and the
implementation of a machinery tax have caused the tourist industry's costs to soar?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: Those factors go towards increasing costs. Those factors are
not only common to New Zealand; they are international factors.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 1965 (#421) ###########################################

5 August
1965
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: A point of order, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: I want to say that this is the first time this year we have dealt with all our
questions. Perhaps the House ought to have a party.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: That was the very point I was about to make. We have only just
been able to get through all the questions on the Order Paper this week, and I think it should
be duly recorded.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Do you want a half holiday?
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: A half holiday would be well due to us. I am sure it must be a
source of great satisfaction to you, Mr Speaker.
Mr SPEAKER: It is indeed.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori): When the House adjourned last night I was commenting
on the remarks made by the member for Wairarapa. At the beginning of my speech I said
that I wanted to reply to certain assertions made by the member for Wairarapa and the
Minister of Maori Affairs. The Minister of Maori Affairs denounced what had been done
during the term of the third Labour Government. He mentioned the New Zealand Maori
Arts Council, which is being formed, but he did not state the position correctly. Discussions
about the formation of the council were held with the previous Minister of Internal Affairs,
and both the member for Western Maori and I were members of the committee. The
Minister mentioned the development schemes that the Maori owners have refused to take
over upon completion. I agree with his statement about that. In some cases the National
Government had not given the Maoris the opportunity to administer those blocks, and they
were therefore incapable of taking over the administration at short notice. A group of blocks
in the Waiariki district was ready for incorporation, but because of the decision of the
owners, the blocks are still in the hands of the Department of Maori Affairs.
I now refer to subsidies, and to a question I asked in the House in 1971. I asked the
Minister of Maori Affairs to indicate, “(1) how many applications for subsidies under the
Maori Welfare Act 1962 have been submitted for payment this financial year; (2) whether
the money appropriated this year is sufficient to satisfy all of the subsidy applications sub-
mitted; and (3) how many, and what is the value of each subsidy application submitted...?"
In 1971 only $35,000 was appropriated by the Government, under the administration of
the present Minister of Maori Affairs, when the total cost of projects submitted by the eight
district councils was $129,527. The total subsidy applications at that time amounted to
$50,890. When the third Labour Government came into office, the Minister of Maori
Affairs, the member for Northern Maori, increased that sum to $80,000 in his first year,
$100,000 in his second year, and $180,000 in his final year. It is pleasing to note that the
present Minister of Maori Affairs has retained that figure. Last year the amount was reduced
by $40,000, but this year it is up to $155,000.
The Minister spent much of his time denouncing the work of the third Labour
Government, and particularly the administration of the former Minister of Maori Affairs. I
deny the statement that the member for Northern Maori has done nothing for the Maori
people in his 15 years in office. For the benefit of the member for Wairarapa and the
Minister of Maori Affairs, I shall go through a pamphlet that sets out some of the things
achieved by the Labour Government. In 1973 that Government printed a white paper on
Maori affairs. In 1974 the Maori Affairs Amendment Act came into force, and then the
Government held a commission of inquiry into Maori reserve land. I remind the Minister of
Maori Affairs that during his former administration two elderly people presented a petition
to the Maori Affairs Committee stating that they had not received enough rental for their
holdings of reserve land in Wellington. As a result, the Labour Government decided to
initiate an inquiry into reserve lands. Many of those lands are now administered by the
Maori people, some of whom have formed incorporations, as was mentioned last night by
the Minister of Maori Affairs. That was as a result of what was done by the member for
Northern Maori when he was Minister of Maori Affairs. The four Maori members put those
matters to the Labour Government. For years the lands have been administered by the
Maori Trustee on behalf of the Maori owners, and now the owners have been given the
opportunity to administer the lands for themselves.
Then there was a Maori land incorporations conference in Gisborne- the biggest
conference of landowners ever held in New Zealand. The result was that a steering


## p. 1966 (#422) ###########################################

1966
5 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
committee was set up to report on the possibility of a federation of incorporations. Probably
the Minister of Maori Affairs can give some indication of what has happened to that
committee. There was a Maori trust boards conference in Rotorua, and a committee chaired
by the member for Western Maori that reported on marae subsidies. The interesting point
about that report is that the task force has used it as a basis for dealing with matters
concerning the Maori people.
Then we come to the Antiquities Act and the Historic Places Amendment Act, both
passed in 1975, and the return of the Taupiri mountain to the Waikato-Maniapoto people,
which was of great significance to the people of the Waikato. The Minister of Maori Affairs
said that on that occasion a Prime Minister visited a Maori marae for the first time. The first
Prime Minister to visit a marae was the late Norman Kirk, who visited the Maungatapu
marae to open the new dining hall there- his first official duty, performed in February 1972,
after he became Prime Minister. No persuasion was necessary. The Prime Minister was
invited, and he agreed to accept the invitation. Then there were the negotiations for the
settlement of the Ngaitirangi land confiscations, the negotiations for the Taranaki Maori
land confiscations and for Mt. Egmont, and the passing of the Treaty of Waitangi Act 1975.
When members speak about these matters they should stick to the facts.
There is some reference to housing in the Budget, but I wish to speak particularly of
Maori housing, which was also mentioned by the member for Wairarapa. Housing for the
Maori people has been the victim of the slash and cut mentality that the National
Government is suffering from.
Mr Birch: Who wrote that?
Mr REWETI: I want to read it because I want to get the facts straight. The number of
families granted assistance fell from 1176 in the 1976 financial year to 953 in the 1977
financial year. That is a cutback of 20 percent. More than 60 percent of the 1940 Maori
people who applied for housing assistance were turned down by the National Government. I
felt I should refer to these matters before turning to what is recorded in the Budget.
Many people have tried to describe this Budget. I have my own description. It is a
peanuts Budget, because what it gives is just peanuts. Mr W. A. Poole said the Budget was a
failure, and that is probably the best description. He said that its main shortcoming was its
failure to display the Government's intention on inflation, and on the balancing of New
Zealand's overseas accounts in the short run. He said more, but I shall leave it at that.
I want to refer to matters in the Budget that affect my electorate and also the Tauranga
electorate. The Budget mentions the establishment of community colleges in Southland,
Whangarei, and Rotorua. I do not see any mention of the Tauranga community college.
Why is that? Why is there a special reference in the Budget to the three colleges I have
mentioned, and no reference to the Tauranga college? The Minister of Education knows
quite well that the property for the community college has been bought, and I understand
that the steering committee of the Tauranga board of governors has had discussions with the
Ministry of Works in Auckland. Why is there a delay?
Hon. L. W. Gandar: There is no delay.
Mr REWETI: Why is it not mentioned in the Budget?
Hon. L. W. Gandar: You don't do everything at once.
Mr REWETI: Well, there is special emphasis on the establishment of community
colleges at Whangarei, Rotorua, and Southland.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: They are the first three. Others will come along in due course.
Mr REWETI: I understand that the Tauranga college was approved before the Rotorua
one, or almost at the same time.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: No, your information is incorrect.
Mr REWETI: I also understand that the property, although it may have been bought
after the Rotorua one, is ready to build on.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: What about Rotorua? Are you happy with Rotorua?
Mr REWETI: Rotorua is already started.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Aren't you happy with one?
Mr REWETI: I am happy with that.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Well, don't be too greedy.
Mr REWETI: I am pointing out that the Tauranga Community College is not
mentioned in the Budget.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Wanganui isn't mentioned. A lot aren't mentioned.
Mr REWETI: I accept the Minister's reply. The final matter I want to deal with is
assistance to the fishing industry. The provisions in the Budget are not sufficient. I ask the


## p. 1967 (#423) ###########################################

5 August
1967
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
Government to look at the basis on which young farmers are settled on farms, and to buy
fishing boats for people who want to go fishing. Let the Government provide the boats for
fishermen, instead of their having to raise almost impossible capital sums for the building or
buying of a boat. If the Government feels that the fishing industry is important, what is
wrong with its buying boats for those who want to go into the industry? The Government has
helped young farmers, and settled people on farms under the rehabilitation scheme. Why
can it not initiate a similar scheme for the fishing industry?
Mr Bell: Why didn't your Government do it?
Mr REWETI: The 200-mile zone is just coming into force.
Mr Bell: You knew it was coming. You could have made preparations for it. The
Labour Government had 3 years to do it.
Mr REWETI: This is the trouble with the National Government: it is always asking,
"Why didn't you do it?". National members are in the box seat now, so why do they not do
it? They have done it before.
Miss Dewe: Ha, ha!
Mr REWETI: The member for Lyttelton always has derisive laughter for serious
matters. She could not care less. I am talking about people who are willing to go into a new
industry, and I am saying that the precedent has already been set by settling young people on
farms. The National Government has been asking, "What about farming potential in the
sea?". What is the difference between farming the potential in the sea and on the land?
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central): In brief answer to the member for Eastern Maori,
the National Government has set aside $50,000 this year to establish the council for Maori
and Polynesian arts, and that is honouring an election promise. The honourable member will
find that this Government always honours it's promises; and I thank him for the acknow-
ledgement he has just given. I should also like to record the observations made by the
Minister of Education about the Tauranga Community College. The evaluation has not yet
been completed, but it is well under way, and the Minister told me that the people of
Tauranga are very happy with progress on that evaluation. The Budget we are debating now
is cold comfort to the Labour Opposition, as it was when it was presented, because it
foreshadows the inevitable defeat again of the Labour Party in 1978-and defeat is
something that Labour members are well used to by now.
The debate got off to a very poor start for the Opposition with the soporific contribution
of its leader. It was a totally forgettable speech by the leader of a party that would be the
Government. His comment on the Budget was that it had no kernel- spelt with a "k". That
is a very interesting observation from a former Prime Minister and Minister of Finance,
because he should surely have know that this was a Budget of restraint after 3 years of
spending by the Labour Government. That was the biggest issue in the 1975 election
campaign, as the former Associate Minister of Finance, the member for Wigram, should
know. The single biggest issue in the 1975 election was the management of the economy. The
people threw the Labour Government out of office neck and crop after just 3 years, but that
is par for the course, because the Labour Party has held on to power for more than 3 years.
Surely the Leader of the Opposition should know that inflation is linked inevitably to
wage claims, many of which are totally excessive. This was a Budget of restraint. Let us look
at what the Leader of the Opposition said as Minister of Finance when he presented his first
Budget to the House back in 1973: “New Zealand's balance of payments position is one of
strength unparalleled in our previous experience." Remember, he took over at the end of
1972, and that is what he had to say 6 months after the Labour Government assumed office.
In the 1974 Budget he said: "This is clearly not the appropriate time for major tax
concessions except where the objective is to increase exports, productivity, or savings, or to
achieve more efficient use of our resources." That could have been taken out of any Budget,
I guess, but it happens to have been taken out of the Budget presented in 1974 by the present
Leader of the Opposition. We will keep throwing this back at the Opposition, and telling
people precisely what the Labour Party might have done if, unhappily for New Zealand, it
had won the 1975 election, because this is what the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, as
Minister of Finance, had to say in his 1975 Budget: "To continue to hold the charges for
Government-provided services at 1972 levels could lead to a wasteful use of scarce resources,
particularly energy, and imported components and equipment. Accordingly, these charges
will be reviewed"-note the use of the word "reviewed"—"at the end of this year when the
present commitment to hold them has been fulfilled." No indication was given of what those


## p. 1968 (#424) ###########################################

1968
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
increases would be, but they were on. Now the Opposition is saying to the National
Government, "What a terrible thing you did to lift bulk electricity, post office, and railways
charges after you assumed office." But the Labour Government was going to do it.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: It was going to reduce them.
Mr COMBER: The Minister of Education observes that the Labour Government might
well have reduced them. It would have been foolish enough to do so- but one can never
really know with a Labour Government. Let us look at what the New Zealand Institute of
Economic Research was saying back in November 1973: "The balance of payments is
forecast to deteriorate markedly during the coming year as import payments continue to
rise." The Monetary and Economic Council said in May 1974: "The New Zealand economy
will face serious problems if the current account deficit continues to increase during 1975-76.
The appropriate steps to obtain overseas finance should be taken now." In February 1975
the council said: "In the period since the publication of the report, the balance of payments
situation and prospects have deteriorated even more sharply than could have been forecast."
The portents were there, but the past and last Labour Government chose to do nothing
about them. Now we hear it all. The Labour Party knows everything when it is in
Opposition, but does not do anything when it is in Government.
The Leader of the Opposition observed recently in a speech to a trade union group that
a Labour Government would shift the tax impost-that is in the unlikely event that Labour
ever became the Government of this country again. Who set the present tax rates? It was the
Labour Government, back in 1974, and we are still using the same basic tax rates. Now the
Leader of the Opposition talks of changing the tax structure. It is very comfortable and easy
to say that in Opposition, but there is no prospect of it when a Labour Government is in
office. When the Prime Minister took over as Minister of Finance in 1967, the maximum rate
of personal income tax was 66 2/3 percent. It was gradually reduced, in keeping with the
National Government's policy of reducing the maximum rate to ease the tax burden. When
National went out of office in 1972 the maximum rate was 45c in the dollar, or 50c less a 10
percent rebate. This year the Government has given $85 million relief to the lower-income
families. Now, members opposite are saying that is not enough. Typically, Labour wants to
spend more, and tax less. That does not add up, but in the arithmetic of members opposite it
is the par for the course.
The Leader of the Opposition says that national superannuation is a terrible thing,
because the Government is giving money to people who do not need it. Similar remarks by
the Deputy Leader of the Opposition foreshadow the dismantling of national superannua-
tion by members opposite if a Labour Government is ever returned to office. The
Opposition spokesman on social welfare is trying to interject. Would he advocate the
dismantling of national superannuation if Labour ever becomes the Government again?
Hon. Michael Connelly: I said that those people who are worse off ought to be put back
in the position they were in previously.
Mr COMBER: It is obvious there will be some dismantling of the national superannua-
tion scheme. The Leader of the Opposition then said that the additional benefits such as the
telephone and television concessions would be retained, so that means that if a Labour
Government was ever returned to power it would reintroduce the means test. The whizz-kid
from Manukau is trying to get into the act. He is the Opposition spokesman on everything. I
believe he was its spokesman on commerce this week. The superannuation scheme
introduced by the National Government is a huge step forward in social progress, and has
been accomplished without any increase in the tax rates.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: Oh!
Mr COMBER: Will the member for Manukau deny that? This year's Budget makes no
provision for increased tax rates. If a Labour Government was returned to office and
dismantled the national superannuation scheme, the women of New Zealand would be in the
same parlous position they would have been in had the New Zealand superannuation scheme
still been operating. An impost of 5 percent, or 2.5c in the dollar from every employee and
employer, would have been taken by the Labour Government. Members opposite say that
the national superannuation will cost $930 million. However, that is the gross figure. The
Leader of the Opposition, and Labour's spokesman, do not do their cause or their credibility
any good when they use that figure, because wrapped up in it are the previous age benefits
and universal superannuation. The scheme includes people in the 60 to 65 age group. Would
members opposite exclude them? Would the member for Manukau advocate that people
between 60 and 65 be excluded under Labour's revised scheme?
Hon. R. O. Douglas: It cost $300 million extra this year.


## p. 1969 (#425) ###########################################

5 August
1969
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
Mr COMBER: We did not get much of an answer to that question. We are still
wondering what members opposite would do, but it is obvious they would dismantle national
superannuation. The Budget provides for a deficit before borrowing of $382 million. Let us
have a look at the figures again. Members opposite do not like them. When National took
office in December 1975, the projected internal deficit before borrowing was $1,200 million.
However, within the next 3 months that deficit had been reduced to $1,000 million. The
projected deficit before borrowing for 1976-77 had been $1,400 million, but the National
Government got that down to $506 million. I think even one of the Labour Opposition's
whizz-kids could work out that that is a $900 million reduction in the expected deficit.
Let us have a look at the increased Government expenditure under Labour, and
compare it with expenditure in the National Government's 2 years in office. In 1973-74
Government expenditure increased by 18.7 percent, in 1974-75 by 29.5 percent, and in 1975-
76 by 28.6 percent. More and more of the country's resources were being channelled into the
central core, the State. That is Labour Party philosophy. In 1976-77, under the National
Government, the increase amounted to 2.7 percent. Although it is projected to be 18.8
percent this year, that includes the impact of national superannuation, which is a oncer.
Mr Lange: Nine times as much.
Mr COMBER: The honourable member's arithmetic is not terribly good, if he thinks
that. How would members opposite raise finance if they were the Government again? They
talk about changing the tax structure.
Hon. Michael Connelly: We would run the economy right.
Mr COMBER: The Labour Government would hit people on higher incomes. That
would not get much more money for the Government, because only about 9000 people in
New Zealand earn more than $20,000 a year. If $1,000 a year was taken from those people,
the Government would receive $9 million; and if $2,000 was taken from them, the total
received would be $18 million. The Labour Government would not get very far, but that is
typical.
Mr Lange: It's the spirit that counts.
Mr COMBER: The spirit will not balance the books, or get any sanity back into the
economy. Members opposite talk about shifting the impact of taxation, but it remains to be
seen just when they might do that. The National Government has done it this year without
increasing the tax rates. Members opposite criticise, but provide no answers. At least they
are consistent. They did that when the Labour Government was in office. It was a do-
nothing Government, and the Opposition is a do-nothing, negative, defensive, and destruc-
tive one.
The Budget is a comprehensive presentation; a sensible document reflecting the
problems of the times. It is not a panacea for the ills that have befallen us as a result of
Labour's mismanagement. It is a Budget of restraint. To quote from the 1976 Budget: "In
plain language New Zealand had for some 2 years been living well beyond its income." We
remember that during those sad and unhappy years under Labour inflation increased from
5.5 percent to 15.7 percent. That figure ignores the cost of stabilisation, which might have
added an extra 3 percent, making an effective rate of about 19 percent. Although under
National there had been a surplus of $200 million, the balance of payments deficit under
Labour amounted to $1,000 million. In its 3 years in office the Labour Government arranged
overseas borrowing amounting to more than $2 billion. The cost of sections increased by 137
percent, and of houses by nearly 100 percent. That was the sad saga of the Labour
Government.
It is a party obviously searching for an identity, wandering in the wilderness of ideology,
taken over by woolly-thinking, left-wing academics. They are dredging from the depths of
the sixteenth century, and even from Marx. One has only to pick up an incredible document
called It is Time to Think, which is put together by the academics who have taken over the
Labour Party! That is causing some concern in genuine Labour Party trade union ranks. The
document quotes Dr Ovenden in the Listener in May 1976: "The Labour Party thus has a
twin problem. Now a small cadre party, it has no explicit philosophy from which can spring a
coherent analysis of society's problems, and a coherent set of policy proposals to remedy
them. It has even lost the ground of pragmatic radicalism to a new populist movement." The
academics go on to ask a question, and I am interested in it, because it indicates a certain
philosophy.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. Tirikatene-Sullivan: Does the member represent Victoria Univer-
sity?
Mr COMBER: I am happy to represent Victoria University. I was up there for 24 hours
14 Vol. 412


## p. 1970 (#426) ###########################################

1970
5 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the other day, having discussions with the information officer and the vice-chancellor and his
team. The member for Southern Maori represents them too. I wonder when she was last
there. This is the question asked in that incredible document: “Would the abolition of the
private ownership of the principal means of production ensure the same standards of
efficiency and production, and what would be its implications regarding the democratic
freedom of New Zealanders?" They were asking that question in 1977. That is sixteenth
century dogma, but they are updating it. That indicates the depth to which they have
plummeted as a credible political force in this country.
They do a double backwards somersault on that, because we read in the Evening Post of
29 July that one of their spokesmen, Mr Bill Jeffries, a Labour city councillor in Wellington,
says that Labour's primary economic principle is that the economy exists to serve people, not
to dominate them. That is interesting, but it does not tie in with the facts as we know them.
Intellectuals certainly have taken over the Labour Party, and it is the poorer for it. They
want to knock investment. Who are the moneylenders, the investors of New Zealand? They
are dozens of small people. One has only to read the reports to know that UEB has 26 000
shareholders, New Zealand Forest Products nearly 69 000, and Watties 26 000, providing
7000 jobs for New Zealanders. They are the moneylenders of New Zealand-the people that
members opposite should be representing. They are the people the Opposition is knocking
when it tries to knock profitability of individual enterprise companies in New Zealand, and
tries to knock investment, and talks about unscrupulous moneylenders. Tens of thousands of
New Zealanders with their small savings are the moneylenders who put money into those
companies.
Mr Lambert: Whom do they represent?
Mr COMBER: Certainly they do not represent New Zealanders, that is for sure. I just
do not know anything about the philosophy of the Labour Party; it is like a chicken with its
head cut off. It is the responsibility—indeed, the duty-of the elected Government to uphold
the rule of law. Regrettably, the law is broken by the actions of an irresponsible few.
Mr Christie: The Prime Minister was the first one to break the law.
Mr COMBER: There he is. I will not use that throw-away expression about the member
for Napier. It has been used too often, I have used it once already myself this session. But he
should bear it in mind, because it has something to do with a certain restoration of the top of
one's temple.
The ACTING SPEAKER (Squadron Leader Drayton): You are not referring to the
Acting Speaker, are you?
Mr COMBER: In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, the owners of capital
wielded immense power, which was often abused. The pendulum has shifted, until now the
power is too much in the hands of the few-and I am thinking of militant trade unions.
Mr Rogers: Who are they? Name them.
Mr COMBER: The member for Onehunga can give his selection speech any time he
wants. He can go into history as the only member to succeed and precede the Rt. Hon. Hugh
Watt. Generally, we are well served by the trade union leadership, but there are a few who
spoil it for the many. They are the agitators and the wreckers-and I think especially of the
Socialist Unity Party. Think about Bill Andersen, a communist; Ken Douglas, a communist;
and Frank McNulty, a communist. Every time those men appear on a television screen, I
hope New Zealanders automatically say, "That man is a communist, and he does not have
the interests of New Zealand at heart." They are not interested in the well-being of their
members; they are just wreckers. We have had the sad saga of the Wellington Boilermakers
Union in the heart of the city, and in other areas. It is time that trade unions updated their
attitudes to their responsibilities—not concentrating on pay and conditions, but thinking of
the welfare of their members. I invite trade union members to take a greater interest in the
actions of the trade union leadership. Do not let them get away with it by default; show some
interest; get along to the meetings and express your views. By far the greater percentage of
trade union members are hardworking, honest men and women, who just want to give of
their best and get a fair return for it. That is what it is all about.
Trade unions could be more concerned with the welfare of their members, and could
provide housing finance and comprehensive welfare programmes, as well as hospital
benefits. Let them look at overseas experience, which the Minister of Labour has had a
chance to study at close quarters in recent months. With the introduction in the Budget of a
degree of profit sharing, unions should be looking in the future for qualified trade union
leaders-men or women who could go on to a board and contribute to its working. Get
qualified people into the trade union movement.


## p. 1971 (#427) ###########################################

5 August.
1971
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
Mr Hunt: Don't you like Sir Tom Skinner?
Mr COMBER: I said that I had a warm regard for the trade union leadership, but these
few wreckers get into positions in the trades councils and make life difficult for so many. The
unions should be asking themselves why there is an appeal for voluntary unionism. Have
they been letting themselves and their members down?
I am also greatly concerned about the bashings and rapes that are going on around the
country. It concerns me particularly, as a member representing a Wellington urban electo-
rate. I will give my support to the Minister of Justice and to the Minister of Police in bringing
about some sane return to good order.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. Tirikatene-Sullivan: Would you increase financial assistance to rape
crisis centres?
Mr COMBER: We should go on trying to help with reasonable programmes, and should
have a look at the penalties for crimes of violence. I stress that I am not advocating that
Parliament should ever contemplate interfering in the work of the courts. I believe that
generally we are well served but Parliament can give a lead, and I think it should, as with all
legislation, review the penalties.
This was a good Budget. It was a happy one for Wellington, I am pleased to say. We will
see the benefits of the allocation to the Urban Transport Council of $50 million over 5 years
for bus replacement. That is a crucial matter for Wellington. Wellington suburban railways
also stand to gain from the allocation of $44 million over 4 years. Wellington will benefit
considerably from those moves. My year would be improved if I received an indication from
the Government that it accepts in principle the need to retain the trans-Tasman link through
the Wellington Airport. That is not a request for immediate expenditure, but for planning
and consideration of its viability. I stress that Wellington is not asking for the third New
Zealand international airport, but it does want to retain the trans-Tasman link. Jobs and
industry in Wellington are at stake. A very responsible attitude has been adopted by the
Wellington City Council and the Wellington Chamber of Commerce under Mr John
Stevenson and his predecessors, who have put forward a planned programme for the
retention of the trans-Tasman link. The need to retain that link is vital, not only to
Wellington City but also to the Wellington region. As I have mentioned, jobs and industry
are at stake. This is a good Budget, and it is cold comfort to the Labour Party.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): We have just heard a wide-ranging speech from the
member for Wellington Central. It clearly showed how hard put Government members are
to defend the Budget. The member for Wellington Central covered just about everything,
and also indulged in Government members' favourite pastime of union baiting and bashing.
Of course, it was typical of what we have come to expect from Government members when
they are bankrupt of ideas and find it difficult if not impossible to defend their policies by
sound argument. The member for Wellington Central said that the Budget was cold comfort
for members of the Labour Party. Well, hundreds of thousands of Labour Party supporters
vote and work for the party, and tens of thousands more will be doing so in the future.
[Interruption.]
The ACTING SPEAKER (Squadron Leader Drayton): Order! There is far too much
loud conversation from one quarter of the House.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN: I was saying that tens of thousands more people will support the
Labour Party because of the latest Budget. It has given cold comfort indeed to the great
majority of New Zealanders. The Budget has been called many things. It has been referred
to as a bits and pieces Budget, a pepper-pot Budget, a buckshot Budget, and a super-tax
Budget, and the member for Wellington Central labelled it a cold comfort Budget. It is
certainly all of those things, but can anyone take it as a serious document when the Minister
of Finance is so far astray in his estimates? In the previous Budget he was no less than $660
million out in the taxation estimate for last year. Tax receipts have produced an additional
$660 million, but the member for Wellington Central had the temerity to discuss taxation as
though it was a magnificent achievement by the National Government.
The Budget is not good news. It has been received coolly, and is a failure document. It
does not grapple with the major problems facing the country, and it is certainly not a
blueprint for the future. In fact, it is an abstract surrender to inflation. It followed a record
quarterly increase in the consumer price index of 4.8 percent, and it will fuel inflation in the
year ahead. It is certain that the Budget will have the opposite effect from that claimed by
Government members. Although the taxation relief for young families is welcome, it is not
nearly enough. In fact, for every $1 the Budget provides in relief to that section of our
community, it takes back another $9. That is an indication of the worth of the Budget and
14


## p. 1972 (#428) ###########################################

1972
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
the National Government.
The member for Wellington Central said that the tax rates are the same as those
established by the former Labour Government. That is correct, but he failed to point out
that an adjustment should have been made to the tax rates because of the tremendous
inflation and the need for wages to keep up. The burden of income tax on the average New
Zealand family has increased by $950. In fact, the total tax paid under the Budget will rise
from $3.8 billion to $4.7 billion, or by $912 million. No wonder Government members are
finding it so hard to defend. Let us look at taxation per head of population.
Mr Hunt: They won't like this.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN: No, they won't. Following the presentation of the Budget the
New Zealand Herald, as is its custom, published a table analysing the tax paid per head of
population—that is, covering income tax and other duty taxes. In the last year of the former
Labour Government the total tax for the year ended 31 March 1976 amounted to $996 per
head of population. That may sound a lot, and it actually represented an increase that year of
$40 per head. In the first year under the present Minister of Finance the total tax per head of
population increased by $205, to $1,199. In the Budget we are now debating we find the
position is even worse, and that tax per head of population is to rise to the staggering figure
of $1,524.36 this year, making an increase of $530 per head of population under the two
Budgets presented by the National Government, or a 50 percent increase in 2 years. That is
another measure of the worth of the Budget we are debating-the Budget from which the
member for Wellington Central tried to take some cold comfort.
What incentive does the Budget give to a wage earner who has to pay 60c on the last $1
of his income? That is a further disincentive. Is it any wonder that people are leaving the
country in record numbers, and that overtime and secondary employment are no longer
attractive? Incentives should be given to increase production, and to ensure that workers
want to work more and produce more. The Budget will have the very opposite effect. Is it
any wonder that the Chief Inspector for the Inland Revenue Department, Mr McKay, was
reported recently as saying that New Zealanders trying to beat inflation are turning to tax
evasion rather than to banks in an effort to save money? He said that tax evasion was now
rated as New Zealand's biggest growth industry. Is it any wonder, when one looks at the
weight of income tax and taxation generally under the present Government? Taxation is only
part of the punishment, because consumer subsidies have been slashed, and Government
charges increased dramatically-electricity by over 100 percent; post office charges by $101
million last year, and a further $60 million this year; and rail fares and transport costs also.
Even the housing sector has been heavily hit, and the Budget is bad news for home builders
and the building industry generally.
The Budget dealt with energy at some length. The present Minister of Energy
Resources, who is well known for his public relations work, can take some credit for doing a
cosmetic job in the Budget, but, like most cosmetic public relations jobs, it reveals all the
flaws one would expect, when it is examined under a microscope. The Budget gives no real
urgency to a reduction of the tremendous import energy bill faced by New Zealand. It tells
us that energy imports will cost New Zealand $550 million, and, just when we should be
directing all our efforts to making a major impact on that tremendous cost, we find that the
weight of the Government's policy does very little to encourage use of our own indigenous
resources. Today, energy comprises one-sixth of our imports. The dramatic escalation in
price for energy imports is revealed by the fact that for the year ended March 1973 the bill
was $76.8 million, while just over 10 years ago the total bill for 12 months' imported energy
was only $39.9 million. For the one month of March this year our energy imports totalled
$45.1 million or, in other words, more than the 1966 total.
New Zealand must become less dependent on imported fuel, and the Government
should be directing its efforts to this end with great urgency. We are past the midway point of
the present Government's term of office. There have been two Ministers of Energy
Resources, both failures. The present Minister of Energy Resources was the Minister of
Housing, and there is no need for me to tell the House and the country what a shambles
housing was under his direction. The present Minister of Housing was the former Minister of
Energy Resources. What does the Prime Minister do when he has two failures? He switches
one for the other, puts a new label on them, and then presents them as saviours of the
housing and energy sectors. The present Government does not have a comprehensive energy
policy, and the public is to be asked to supply it. Ever since it took office, the Government
has threatened to produce a total energy policy, but we are still waiting in vain.
It has been quick to produce a pricing policy. The cost of electricity has increased by 100


## p. 1973 (#429) ###########################################

5 August
1973
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
percent, of natural gas by 80 percent, and of coal by almost 100 percent. The Government
says that its pricing policy is a conservation policy, but we see contradictions in the Budget's
encouragement of the carriage of goods by road transport, which is a heavy consumer of
imported fuel and takes business away from the railways. To illustrate another contradiction,
I can point to the heating of a swimming pool in Wellington, which consumed 80.420 units in
the 7 months from December 1976 to July 1977. At the concession rate, this cost $816.10.
The Budget sorts out the housewives and puts an added tax on the purchase of clothes
dryers, which are not overlarge consumers of electricity. Recently, the Evening Post
published a table showing the energy consumption of a whole range of household appliances.
The cost of running a clothes dryer under the Hutt Valley Electric Power Board is 21c a
week. If we balance that against the cost of heating a swimming pool at a reduced tariff, we
see the folly of the Government's pricing policy.
One would have expected it to be designed to take the pressure off the importation of
energy, but figures supplied by the Minister of Energy Resources, in response to a question
put to him on the pricing policy of the present Government, show that, instead of
encouraging the use of our own indigenous energy resources, the present pricing policy is
having exactly the opposite effect. Let us take industrial fuel oil at the time of the change of
Government in December 1975 as a base of 100 units for comparison with other fuels.
Industrial fuel oil costs $1 a gigajoule of energy output. With industrial fuel oil at 100 units,
electricity was 95, coal 38, and natural gas 45. All these indigenous energy resources had an
advantage over imported fuel oil, but in May 1977, after the present Government's pricing
policy had been put into effect, and with industrial fuel oil still being taken at 100 units, coal
had increased from 38 to 68, natural gas from 45 to 74, and electricity from 95 to 182. That is
the magnificent and wonderful pricing policy of the present Government.
If I were an industrialist using imported industrial fuel oil, and thinking about being
patriotic and doing something to save overseas funds, I would think twice about whether it
was worth my while to convert, because all the incentives and pressures are the other way if
one relates use to the actual price of the product. In December 1975, $1 per gigajoule of fuel
oil energy output cost $3.39. In May of this year the cost increased by 8c to $3.47. However,
the price of coal has gone up, not by 8c but by $1.07, natural gas by $1.05, and of electricity
by $3.10. That is the Government's pricing policy on energy. Its energy policy, and certainly
its pricing policy, are disastrous for this country. Is it any wonder that our bill for imported
energy continues to increase? The Minister and the Government made great play about
some of the incentives given industry last year to use alternative fuels. The Government gave
certain tax incentives for capital expenditure on energy conservation measures, including
evaluation equipment and industrial installation of approved process control equipment,
which could receive a 100 percent tax concession.
That all sounded very impressive as a package deal to conserve energy. Recently I asked
the Minister about the effect of that policy on industry, and he gave me the following reply,
"So far there have been no applications for evaluation equipment; one for industrial
installation, valued at $2,000; and six for improved control equipment, totalling $108,000."
That provision by the Government had an almost negligible effect on the conservation of
energy in industry last year. No wonder we are suspicious of the Government's intention to
extend the range in this year's Budget.
New Zealand does not have a good record in energy conservation generally. An OECD
industrial energy survey published in The Need for Action in the OECD Observer in October
1976 shows that, of the member countries listed, New Zealand is one of the least efficient
users of energy in automobiles, in transport, and in the production of petroleum products
and aluminium. It is the second least efficient producer of crude steel, cement, and pulp and
paper, and is the heaviest user per tonne of those products. That shows the magnitude of the
task ahead of the Government, but there is the problem of its ability to grapple with this—
Mr Birch: What did the honourable member's Government do about it?
Hon. F. M. COLMAN: We had a programme designed to bring New Zealand's
energy-[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order!
Hon. F. M. COLMAN: We imported 60 percent of our energy-[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The interjections have been far too persistent. Rare and
reasonable interjections are acceptable, but not a flow.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN: We were importing 60 percent of our energy needs when the
energy crisis hit this country. We had a plan designed to bring that amount down to within 30
percent in the next few years. We were getting co-operation from industrialists and the


## p. 1974 (#430) ###########################################

1974
5 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
public generally to do just that. I turn now to the Government's proposal to prospect for oil
and industrial gas. It is one of the strangest things contained in the Budget and, like so many
aspects of the Government's policy, it leaves much to be desired. The Budget states: “On-
shore, however, no exploration has taken place for some years. It has therefore been
decided to establish a continuing programme of on-shore seismic work and exploration
drilling by the Government itself." Without knowledge of the background, one would think
that was a reasonable proposition being put forward by the Government, but the statement
glosses over the Government's bungling and ineptitude in its handling of oil prospecting
interests.
On-shore licences have been advertised extensively both in New Zealand and overseas
for the past 2 years, but, because of the Government's clumsiness in negotiation and its
policy of applying levies and taxes on oil prospecting companies, no prospectors would take
up licences; nor will they until the Government clarifies what the industry can expect if a
successful discovery is made.
The National Business Review recently had some very scathing comments on the
National Government's handling of the situation: "But there is no immediate proposal to
end the deadlock that has brought oil exploration to a near halt. While the protagonists
haggle"—that is, the Government and the prospectors-"some of our best prospects are
leaving the country in disgust. The major American oil companies, once firmly committed to
obtaining exploration licences here, have withdrawn their applications, according to
informed sources. One had an off-shore drill on standby in Singapore destined for New
Zealand. Now that this rig is no longer available it could cost millions of dollars more for
mobilisation of transport to bring another rig to this country."
The oilmen said they were waiting for the Government to make an unequivocal
statement of principle before they would take up any new exploration licences. Their main
complaint is that they cannot be expected to continue investing money in a very high-risk
industry without having a clear understanding from the Government of just where they
stand. Uncertainty is the reason given by the industry for its refusal to take up new licences.
Fourteen oil prospecting licences in Taranaki have been advertised over the past 2
years. When the Labour Government went out of office in November 1975 these licences
were being advertised, and it was expected that a great deal of interest would be shown.
However, the National Government came into power and proposed a $3 a barrel levy on any
oil discovered, which was unacceptable to the companies concerned. The Government has
now proposed a different taxing measure and discussions have been taking place without any
degree of finality being reached. In the National Business Review the oil industry said of the
present Government: "Since the announcement of the energy policy, present and potential
overseas investors have likened the political climate for investment here to that of Uganda,
Bangladesh, and Indonesia." That is an indictment of the present Government. Is it any
wonder that the oil industry had this to say about the Labour Government: "Several oil men
have expressed nostalgia for the so-called socialistic Labour Government, when word of
mouth gentlemen's arrangements were honoured, and sanctity of contract preserved."?
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Mr LITHGOW (Palmerston North): I believe the member for Petone completely
shattered his credibility when he told us that the Labour Party had hundreds of thousands of
members, because we all know how few members the Labour Party actually has. He relied
completely on the analysis in the New Zealand Herald for his comments on the Budget, and
offered nothing new. It is obvious that the member opposes price increases for energy, but
without them subsidies would have to be brought back, and once more energy would be
wasted as it was under the Labour Government. The National Government has tied the price
of energy to the price of overseas fuel, and this will result in a more responsible use of
energy. In the Evening Post on 10 May, under the heading "A more relaxed Leader of the
Opposition" the following statement appears: "I believe I have learned a great deal as the
Opposition leader, but not enough to stay in it for a long time." I confidently predict, after
his Budget speech, during which his colleagues did everything but listen, that his statement
will prove to be correct, and that he will not be the Leader of the Opposition for a long time.
I believe that after the 1978 election, and yet another failure, his caucus will throw him out
within 5 months.
I turn now to the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, and can only say that his Budget
speech showed one of the lowest standards of debate I have heard as a first-term member. It
consisted of nothing but name calling and snide needling, but that is what we have come to


## p. 1975 (#431) ###########################################

5 August
1975
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
expect from him. However, I agreed with his statement that the present Prime Minister
would be here for many terms yet. I then looked for an indication of the Opposition's
performance, and this is what I came up with. The member for Henderson, who has been
described as "Labour's leading thinker", was quoted in the Dominion on 6 July as saying that
he is tired of Parliament and dispirited with the way that the Labour Party has drifted apart. I
believe that sums up the Opposition.
I turn now to the Budget, and want to talk about the transport policy and the way it will
affect Palmerston North. The extension of the road freight limit from 64 km to 150 km is of
significant interest to my electorate, as it will mean that freight from Wellington can be
transported directly from the wharves to factories in Palmerston North without any double
handling. The converse also applies, and Palmerston North manufacturers will be able to put
their products on to a truck and transport them direct to the wharves in Wellington. This will
mean a considerable cost saving. Wellington and Palmerston North manufacturers will be
able to make their products more competitive, and will be able to use rail more effectively
for heavy shipments. The $40 claim for breakages or loss when goods travel by rail is out of
date, and has cost many retailers and wholesalers a lot of money. I hope the Government
will do something about this, because many firms are very concerned. I am making
representations about it. On the other side of the coin, companies will be able to use rail
effectively by shipping their goods longer distances. The trucks will create a bigger
turnround with the rail wagons. That will speed up rail freight, which is recognised as being a
little slow.
The previous speaker discussed the energy plans, but he knew very little about them.
The energy provision in the Budget will make a significant impression on Palmerston North.
Many companies there have established their operations around the ability to use natural gas
effectively. The Palmerston North gas department is a very forward-thinking organisation
and has extended gas pipelines in the city. In new subdivisions, such as Westbrook, natural
gas pipes are automatically laid, and as a consequence new Housing Corporation homes will
use natural gas for space heating, stoves, and water heating. Last year 458 new domestic
services were connected by the Palmerston North gas department, subsidised to the tune of
$98,000. That gives an idea of the forward thinking of the Palmerston North gas department.
The $100 4-year tax-free loan for water heating and cooking connections, and the $200
interest-free loan for space heating are further incentives for more homes to switch over to
gas. I shall support the Palmerston North gas department if it considers loading or
restructuring gas charges for homes with single gas connections. The overall price of gas
should not be increased, but restructuring the price to homes with only one gas connection
would encourage people to switch over to using more gas appliances.
The Government's Budget policies will accelerate the use of gas in Palmerston North.
Commercial and industrial gas users have been given positive tax incentives, and I have
received inquiries from firms considering changing over to gas instead of using other forms of
energy. I shall now take a quick look at some of the reasons why this is being done. A 10
percent tax refund will be given for new machinery using indigenous resurces. The scheme
provides for a 100 percent write-off in the first year for approved capital expenditure. The
provision lists equipment for the recovery of waste heat and the insulation of commercial
buildings. Dozens of commercial buildings could be upgraded by insulation, and that goes
for Government departments too. Many Government offices should be looked at, and I
hope the Ministers are listening. How often does one go into a Government office and see
energy wasted by heaters going flat stick? Some offices are heated with stacks of heaters, but
the doors are open and draughts are coming in, thereby wasting the energy. That problem
could be overcome by insulating and draught-proofing. The third factor in the provision is
equipment used for recycling and for the re-use of waste material. The whole of the Labour
Party would probably fit into that category. Those factors will save energy.
The attitude of the Minister towards on-shore petroleum exploration is commendable,
particularly now that the New Zealand consumer realises the amount the Arabs charge for
oil. Our electricity charges are now directly related to that charge. A small natural gas find in
Hawke's Bay or Canterbury would supply the needs of the district, and provide a new lift for
the industries and towns in those areas. The member for Hastings is nodding his head about
a gas find in Hawke's Bay. I was very pleased to hear that exploration would be carried out
in the Manawatu area, and I hope that a significant discovery can be made. I remind new
home builders that interest-free loans for home insulation have been increased from $300 to
$400, and the term of the loans has been extended from 2 years to 4 years. It makes good
sense to start off with a fully insulated home, thereby reducing energy loss from the word go.


## p. 1976 (#432) ###########################################

1976
5 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Export incentives are important to many Palmerston North manufacturers. One
company is exporting a significant quantity of oars and paddles. I had thought about sending
a ship-load of oars to the Labour Party headquarters so that they could paddle themselves
out of the mess they are in. Unlike the Labour Party, that Palmerston North company knows
what to do with its oars and paddles, and is selling them profitably in Australia. As a result of
the Government's export incentive scheme that company is planning to treble production.
Another manufacturer is investigating the possibility of exporting knocked-down coffins to
Australia. A good way of getting rid of the Labour Party dead wood would be by shipping it
out in knocked-down coffins. Seriously though, there are important markets to be developed
in our Pacific Islands and Australia, and the c.k.d. coffins will go well over there. I am
pleased to report that Palmerston North is leading the field and making the fullest use of the
National Government's incentives.
Another Palmerston North-based company is leading the world in the production of ear
tags. They are being used mainly on sheep and cattle for identification and age purposes.
This is a rapidly expanding multimillion-dollar market, and the highest praise should go to
the administrators and organisers for their dynamic sales approach. The company made
further valuable contacts when 18 diplomats and their wives toured Palmerston North. It
contacted Argentinian diplomats. There are 36 000 000 cattle in the Argentine, and I should
like to say that we can ear tag every one of them. I do not think there is an outlet for ear tags
in the Labour Party, because the mob is so small you can count them all on one hand
anyhow. I have five fingers on this hand, and I think I could count the Labour Party
intelligentsia with fewer than that. My colleague, the member for Hamilton East, tells me
there is also an outlet for ear tags at the South Pole, where the seals are being ear
tagged- another outlet for a Palmerston North product.
I turn now to shift work and depreciation allowances. For years some New Zealand
manufacturers have developed highly capital-intensive plants that work only an 8-hour to 10-
hour day. Statistics show that New Zealand production per man-hour is dropping, at a time
when we should be competitive on international markets. The 3 percent incentive for
machinery operating at least 6000 hours a year, or an 80-hour week, will necessitate shift
work, and is an excellent provision. This type of incentive justifies the installation of
expensive equipment which, in many cases, is now being used at only one-third of its
capacity. Why is it working to only one-third of its capacity? It is because the machinery is
being worked only an 8-hour day, and because plants are shutting down for 3 or 4 weeks at
Christmas. Added up through the year, this means that the plant-very expensive plant-is
not being used to its fullest extent. I implore New Zealand businessmen to look closely at
this incentive, and to make use of it.
Mr Hunt: How about giving them some tax relief?
Mr LITHGOW: Profit sharing should be of interest to the Opposition, particularly to
the member for New Lynn. Before the 1977 Budget, I had many discussions with manufac-
turers in Palmerston North who were concerned about skilled staff who tend to drift to
Auckland. Obviously they will not go to New Lynn-that is the last place they would want to
go to. Many companies have shown the courage to relocate in Palmerston North, and shown
confidence in the future of Palmerston North and the Manawatu. Some have been helped by
the extension of the road freight limit to 150 km, and this involves the Wellington to
Palmerston North run. Others will be helped by the announcement of profit-sharing schemes
designed to improve the ability of firms that are already efficient to attract and hold the type
of reliable staff necessary to anyone planning an expansion programme. The profit-sharing
schemes would relate to the employees of firms with good profitability, and other advan-
tages. First, employees will know in advance that they are to receive a share of the profits,
and there will automatically be an incentive to boost profitability and efficiency.
There are so many people who insist on taking a "sickie", or going to the races; there is
the boss who decides to have a game of golf on a Wednesday or Friday afternoon. Quite
frankly, whether it is the shop-floor worker taking the "sickie", or the boss going to golf, this
does not do New Zealand one ounce of good. Profit sharing will have a great effect on better
staff relations. We are all conscious of the importance of good staff relations, from
management to the shop floor. The profit-sharing scheme provides immediately a better
platform to work from. The Minister of Labour and the Minister of Trade and Industry are
to be congratulated on that part of the policy, and on their teamwork in putting it into
operation.
I welcome with interest the thought being shown for the small businessman, and the
plans that are being set afoot to give him special assistance. Finance, management, and


## p. 1977 (#433) ###########################################

5 August
1977
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
marketing problems will be tackled by the small business agency, and Palmerston North is
taking the lead in this. Mr D. Fine, through the chamber of commerce and other organisa-
tions in Palmerston North, has done good work and provided a practical base for small
businessmen to work from.
Finally, I want to mention the story of a "pub with no beer". I refer to the progress
made by a young, enthusiastic community worker who was until a couple of weeks ago
employed by the Palmerston North City Corporation, and who deserves all possible credit.
Kris Nicolau has been the motivating force in organising regular Friday dances to raise
enough money to establish facilities similar to those the Prime Minister opened recently in
Napier. A small committee, chaired by Kris Nicolau, and with nothing but enthusiasm to
start with, has set about proving that it can, by its own efforts, warrant recognition from the
Government. The committee is not asking for help at this stage, because it does not think its
stake is big enough, but I am confident that this enthusiastic young team of 14-year-olds and
15-year-olds will prove in the next 12 months that a subsidy is justified. The committee
provides entertainment in the form of a disco dance for up to 500 10-year-old to 17-year-old
children every Friday fortnight. It has had its share of trouble, with "heavies" coming out of
the pubs between 10 and 11 p.m., and trying to break up the show. The committee has
managed to withstand this, and to keep going; it shows confidence in the future generation. I
firmly believe in the committee's ability to deal with the problem and to overcome the small
but disruptive element that sets out to destroy. The greatest indictment of Palmerston North
adults is that they have not provided a small band of people to give the physical support so
vital to making this activity successful.
Mr Hunt: Get your junior National Party to work.
Mr LITHGOW: The member for New Lynn would do well to listen to this. Many of the
kids are trying to create a "pub with no beer", but regrettably, those kids in many cases are
overcoming problems created by parents who are in a pub with beer. I give notice to every
member of the National Cabinet that if these youngsters carry on with their project I shall be
knocking on every Cabinet Minister's door on their behalf to find enough money to get them
settled in a permanent "pub with no beer" in Palmerston North.
My speech would hardly be complete without some comment on the excellent national
superannuation scheme. The Government's decision to relieve people whose only assessable
income is national superannuation of the need to file tax returns is both logical and practical.
I am frequently reminded by elderly people of the quiet dignity in which this scheme now
allows them to live. If Opposition members went out and did some door knocking, they
would find the same thing. The fear in the minds of many people is what would happen to
them in the disastrous event—and heavens, do not let this happen-of Labour ever regaining
the Treasury benches. It is obvious that Labour would take superannuation away from
women again. We must remember that the New Zealand superannuation scheme failed to
cater for women, and, if operating now, would be taking 2.5 percent of wages from the
worker, and 2.5 percent from the employer, and heading towards 4 percent from each. The
next Labour speaker should tell us what would happen to all those women over 60 in my
electorate—and I am interested in the women in my electorate-who are at present enjoying
national superannuation, should the Labour Party ever get back into office.
On the subject of duty on alcohol and tobacco, I have listened to some ridiculous
verbiage from Labour members, particularly the member for Timaru. His failure to do any
homework and research appals me. Had he spoken to any 20 people, he would have come up
with a figure of 3 to 1 every time in favour of putting a tax on alcohol and tobacco to support
the Health vote. Ask any doctor or nurse in an accident emergency ward, or any traffic
officer or police officer on a Friday or Saturday night what they say about the cost of liquor
and the smashed-up people they have to deal with.
Mr Hunt: It's gone up 5c.
Mr LITHGOW: That is right, and it should probably have gone up more. I feel very
strongly about it.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but the time
allotted to him has expired.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): It is a delight to follow the member for Palmerston North; it
compensates for not having followed the member for South Canterbury. I say at the outset
that the contribution by the member for Palmerston North will be inordinately gratefully
received by the Manawatu Evening Standard, but, like the rest of the Budget debate, it may
have caused some of us to have left or lapsed. I suggest that, before the member talks about
transport and extols the virtues of the relaxation of the road versus rail limit, he should work


## p. 1978 (#434) ###########################################

1978
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
out whether Palmerston North will be able to send by road those articles consigned from
there to Rongotai.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: It won't reach Rongotai.
Mr LANGE: It will not reach Rongotai. I should like to know from the Minister of
Education-seeing the Minister of Transport will not enlighten the House-when the road
rates will be announced. Why should the member for Palmerston North extol the virtues of a
Budget that, on the face of it, allows him to give undertakings to his people that they can
roar up and down the highway in 32-tonne articulated container vehicles when he does not
know whether the tax will be so prohibitive that they will be forced on to the railways? That
conflict arises in the whole of the Budget. What strategy is involved in announcing what is
superficially politically attractive, when the other side of the coin is not revealed?
Hon. L. W. Gandar: You'll learn, and you'll grow up.
Mr LANGE: I will learn, and I will grow up, as the Minister of Education says. I look
forward to that. I am waiting for the member for Hamilton East to advance his moratorium
on whaling, so I can go swimming near the member for Hamilton East. I will learn, and I will
grow up-but I have been in the House long enough now to know that there are honourable
members opposite who deserve respect and who are people of integrity, and I believe that in
the interests of the public they should declare themselves as not opting for the politically
superficially attractive answer, but rather for the reality of what the government of this
country is about. I feel that keenly, because I hauled around Hobson, and listened to the
Moses from Hobson promising in 1975 to restore New Zealand's shattered economy. What
was not going to happen, according to him, was not worth happening, and the press
statements tumbled out from those strange printing houses in the far north. And they called
me a creeping socialist-the low-profile, creeping socialist-who endorsed the principle of
the Local Government Act—and was that not something to be condemned? What principle
is evident when the Local Government Commission produces a scheme to amalgamate the
Hokianga County and the Bay of Islands County, abolishing the Hokianga County? Where
has the principle gone? Not a peep comes from the member for Hobson, but an overwhelm-
ing silence in endorsement.
That epitomises the conflict that runs through the entire Government. National
members won an election in 1975 when they did not expect to, and they are lumbered with
national superannuation, which they know they cannot afford. They promised to restore
incentive to the economy—and they have taken more tax than any Government has ever
taken in the history of this country. They went round saying that New Zealand's borrowing
was getting it into the knackers with pawnbrokers overseas-and they have borrowed more
than the Labour Government ever did.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Repaying Labour Government loans.
Mr LANGE: The figures on table No. 13 of the Budget, at page 57, show that the
Minister of Education is wrong. In 1973, $563 million was owed abroad. It decreased to $465
million.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's right.
Mr LANGE: It rose to $862 million in 1975, and at 31 March this year it is $1,000 million
higher-this from a Government whose members went round the country promising to
restore New Zealand's shattered economy.
Mr Fenton: Investment borrowing.
Mr LANGE: Investment borrowing! It is always good to have in politics a person with a
flair for humour. The member for Hastings is on the boards now, and we enjoy him, but he
will not be here for long. At a time when the Government announces that it has been
engaging in the restraint of capital development, there is $1,000 million extra for investment
borrowing.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: The member hasn't been using the correct figures.
Mr LANGE: The member has not been using the correct figures?
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's at 31 March, and you're trying to say something quite
different.
Mr LANGE: Table No. 13, on page 57 of the Budget, shows at 31 March 1977 a figure of
$1,826,607,000.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's correct.
Mr LANGE: On 31 March 1975 the figure was $1,000 million less.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Give us the total 1976 figure.
Mr LANGE: In 1976 the figure was $400 million less.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's right.


## p. 1979 (#435) ###########################################

5 August
1979
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
Mr LANGE: The modest development of $400 million extra comes from a Government
whose members were charging round the country saying a National Government would
introduce import control-and the Minister of Education would pretend that the Labour
Government did not engage in capital development! Have you ever heard of the Shipping
Corporation? Who bought the aircraft for Air New Zealand? Who drilled oil wells that you
are building towers on? The National Government that went to the country in 1975, and
said, in complete betrayal of its much professed political philosophy, " 'Big daddy' is going
to look after you, and everything will be all right". And into that rock the people crept-and
it was made of pinex. The reality is that the Government cannot give comfort and assurance
to the people. It is a fact of humanity that unless the people are moved, unless there is a spirit
of co-operation, and unless there is a target, an ambition, and a realisation that people are
striving for economic and social justice, the Government, by smart political advertising or
political charlatanism—not by the honourable members in this House, but by the whole
promotion of the 1975 campaign-will not delude the people for long. Government
members with integrity know that. I ask them to consider where they stand on political
philosophy, and to listen to those National Party people who say that the Government is the
bastion of free enterprise—although it endorses a State-owned on-shore well-drilling prog-
ramme. Where does the member for Western Hutt stand on that one?
Mr Lambert: Firmly.
Mr LANGE: Just like the member for Invercargill. When he was asked where he stood
on students, he said, "On their necks".
Mr Malcolm: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I seek your guidance. I was not
listening too closely to the member for Mangere-[Interruption.]
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! When a point of order is being raised, it will be heard
in silence. I have great difficulty in following points of order when there are continual
interjections from other members. I am sure members have the same difficulty.
Mr Malcolm: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker. I was not listening too closely to the
member for Mangere, but I believe he accused the Government of political charlatanism.
Could I seek your help in gaining the assurance of the member for Mangere that that was
what he said? If the member did accuse the Government of political charlatanism, would you
indicate whether or not that is in order?
Hon. R. J. Tizard: I submit that this is nothing but a deliberate attempt to break up the
speech of the member for Mangere. The member for Eden admitted he had not heard what
the member for Mangere said, but then sought your guidance. If he is not sure of his ground
he should not be making a point of order, and certainly not just to break up an effective
speech.
Dr Wall: Traditionally, points of order are raised because certain words are said to be
likely to promote disorder in the House. Also, the tradition of drawing to the attention of the
public misrepresentations by the other side is long-standing, and has not been condemned by
the Chair. Although that is intrinsic in the adversary system in which we work, it was the
basis of complaint from the member raising the point of order. He has not mentioned the use
of any words that would be likely to promote disorder. He has merely said that the member
for Mangere, in the long tradition of the House, has effectively been stating that one party
has been deceiving the public. If, Mr Deputy Speaker, you are being invited to condemn that
long-standing tradition, I wonder how much longer it is worth while our meeting here.
Mr Birch: I take exception to what the member for Porirua has just said. The Standing
Orders are quite clear. Standing Order 184 states that personal reflections of any sort shall
be deemed to be highly disorderly. The word "charlatanism" was used by the member for
Mangere. I believe it is quite in order to draw the attention of the House to the use of that
word, even though its context may not have been fully understood at the time. It is also in
order, under Standing Order 186, to rise at the time exception was taken to the imputation.
To try to indicate otherwise is, I think, a misuse of the rules of the House.
Mr Prebble: Speaking to the point of order-
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I do not need any further assistance. I thought the member for
Mangere might have assisted the House by telling us what he did say. I was listening closely,
and the words he used were something to the effect of accusing the Government party-and,
of course, that includes Government members of having been involved in some form of
political charlatanism. I take the point raised by the Senior Government Whip that Standing
Order 184 states quite clearly-and I will read it for the benefit of honourable members-
that: "All imputations of improper motives, or unbecoming reference to a member's private
affairs, and all personal reflections, shall be deemed highly disorderly." The purpose of that


## p. 1980 (#436) ###########################################

1980
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
Standing Order is clear, because, as I have said before, no debate can properly take place in
this Chamber if there is disorder, or if members are using words, phrases, accusations, or
imputations, that could lead to disorder. It is the responsibility of the person in the chair to
see that this does not take place.
However, I think we recognise that, in the long-standing tradition in this debating
Chamber, members should be free to indulge in free speech, and to use words and phrases
that are robust, provided they do not offend other members. A certain amount of discretion
in these matters is left with the presiding officer. I used that discretion by not interrupting the
honourable member for Mangere or requiring him to withdraw the comments he made. As
the member for Porirua suggested, and as the Standing Order I read out makes clear, it is
incorrect for members to say anything disorderly in this Chamber. Members are not
permitted to refer to other members as being dishonest, or to impugn their honour in any
way. I took the phrase used by the member for Mangere to be a borderline one. The point of
order was properly raised by the member for Eden. However, I think we could let the matter
rest. I ask the honourable member for Mangere to be a little more careful in the future in his
reference to honourable members.
Mr LANGE: I reiterate that the charlatanism arose, not from the members present, but
from the political apparatus and advertising structure, which betrays the integrity of some of
the honourable members here, and, indeed, I think of all of them.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: They had to disown it.
Mr LANGE: Yes. That is a compliment to the members, because they denounced that
which was produced by the communications machine. It had to be, of course, because the
other quandary in which the Government places itself has to do with pride-the pride that
will not allow it to turn back and display a degree of humanity that might admit to some
human frailty; the pride that caused Montreal to be an historic olympic fact for the sake of a
simple dissociation; and the pride that this year at Gleneagles led to the adoption of a policy
that took the National Government back from what was required of it in July 1976. If
Opposition members talk about it, they are unpatriotic, because in Scotland the curtain was
drawn over the past. Members ought to acknowledge that the pride that dominates party
political machines can be adverse to the interest of New Zealand, and the pride that
dominates the alliance of individual members of Parliament can prevent them from discharg-
ing their duties in the best interests of the people.
I suppose there is a point in carrying on the Budget debate, although for the public the
Budget debate finished when the television channels closed down on the Thursday night the
Budget was delivered. We proceed here, as we must and as we ought, to relate the economic
blueprint to the people of our electorate. Despite what has been said by Government
speakers, nothing in the Budget relieves the situation of my people in Mangere. The much
vaunted single-income rebate—
Mr McLay: Thirteen dollars a week.
Mr LANGE: Thirteen dollars a week. For the June quarter, inflation was a record 4.8
percent, and a person on the average wage required more than $11 gross to cope with that
one quarter's inflation.
Mr McLay: Talk about the full year's figures.
Mr LANGE: On that prediction, the full year's figures will be over 20 percent. Does the
member for Birkenhead really want the full year's figures? Does he want to go back to the
1975 election campaign and the promises to restore single-digit inflation? There needs to
be-and I know there is in the member for Birkenhead-a compelling honesty. He will know
that the people in my electorate are not being assisted. It does no good for me, or any other
politician, to tell the people in my electorate who are living in State houses and have children
that the single-income rebate scheme will make them $13 a week better off. They are buying
the bread and the milk
Mr McLay: How much did their wages go up?
Mr LANGE: How much did the standard tertiary bursary and the domestic purposes
benefit go up? The reality is that the single-income rebate is a welcome drop in a lake which
is not filled by this Budget. Apropos of nothing, the other day there was a suggestion that
Mangere has a worse history of rent arrears than any other Housing Corporation area.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: It is a fact.
Mr LANGE: It was a statement, and I guessed the arrears to within 1 percent when I
was at the Housing Corporation the week before, because I know the people of Mangere,
and I know why their rents are in arrears. The Minister of Housing knows that he has taken
more by way of rental out of Mangere since his party became the Government than was ever


## p. 1981 (#437) ###########################################

5 August
1981
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
taken before. It is easy to talk about arrears escalating, but how much money is being
dragged out of that Mangere housing stock? It has increased since the election, and the
Minister knows it.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: We have tears running down our cheeks.
Mr LANGE: You can have tears running down your cheeks as much as you like when
your department gets a warrant for possession of house occupied by a social welfare
beneficiary with 6 children, and the rent is $18.50 a week, and the Department of Social
Welfare will not arrange for even the family benefit to be paid to the Housing Corporation.
The member for Mangere intervened, and the good offices of the Housing Corporation were
involved, and I compliment the corporation. The arrears amount to $1,200. By a simple
administrative act, the Department of Social Welfare handed over to the Housing Corpora-
tion the current rental and sufficient to discharge the arrears, because the property is now
properly rated. But a warrant for possession was obtained. Do not talk about Housing
Corporation arrears in Mangere, when transport charges, electricity increases, and everyday
costs are competing for the family purse. Do not talk about Housing Corporation arrears,
when it does not seem to be possible easily to get the Department of Social Welfare to see
that the rent is paid out of the available economic benefits. Both parties have for years
accepted the principle that the family benefit can be capitalised for the purpose of providing
a home. It should be part of the practice and philosophy of both parties to ensure that
economic benefits are paid to the Housing Corporation, to stop warrants for possession
being sought and obtained against State house tenants with families. No honourable member
would want to see people thrown out on the street.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: The tenant has a few responsibilities, too.
Mr LANGE: The Minister of Housing would dissent from that proposition, would he?
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: The honourable member heard what I said.
Mr LANGE: I did not hear what the Minister said.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: I said that the tenant has a few responsibilities, too.
Mr LANGE: The tenant undoubtedly has responsibilities, and has the duty, in so far as
it is economically feasible, to discharge the rental. But is it seriously imagined that a tenant
would continue not to discharge the rental when the arrears have been drawn to his attention
by the Housing Corporation, when a summons has been issued, and when a solicitor is
involved? I suggest that it is at that stage that the Department of Social Welfare ought to
transmit the economic benefit to the Housing Corporation. It is simply good rent collection,
and I commend it to the Minister. It is quite simple. It takes away stress, and the funny thing
is that it keeps people in houses, and stops Housing Corporation people from running
around chasing rent. It is a simple matter, and it should be done.
I come from an electorate where people use buses. They are not happy about the sort of
trendy statement in the Budget which, in another area, might be welcomed-the notion that
the Government will pay $70,000 to people on the North Shore to keep them using private
cars. What about the bus and the rail? My people do not catch the train, because there is
none. It is some time since a train went across the Onehunga bridge. The railway service is
hopeless. That provision is in the Budget, and, so far as it is there, I welcome it.
Mr Latter: It will be better.
Mr LANGE: The member for Marlborough says that it will be better. I am content to
rest on his assurance. It cannot be worse, and we have had it for 3 years. This is the political
drama, the liturgy of concealment-
An Hon. Member: Answer it.
Mr LANGE: I will answer it by saying that we have had the duty in this Chamber for
more than 100 years—and if one becomes utterly partisan, the ledger tends to fall rather
more on to the side of the National Party in the last 20 years, than it does on the Labour
Party.
Mr Latter: I accept that, and we are going forward.
Mr LANGE: If you accept it, I accept it, and you are going forward I know. In fact, I
would say that the member for Marlborough is going forward a lot more than some of his
brethren, and I look forward to the time when he is really forward, because I welcome him as
one of the fellows who is capable of introducing an element of concern and integrity into
decisions.
Mr Latter: Are you going to help?
Mr LANGE: I will help him all the way. It is the kiss of death, of course, at the moment.
We cannot publicly applaud each other, because I have put paid to the member for
Marlborough. I commend him and look forward to co-operating with him in the time he has


## p. 1982 (#438) ###########################################

1982
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
་་
left in the House.
I now want to talk about law and order. Since I spoke in the Address in Reply debate
there has been an increase in the intensity of violence in my electorate. I make a plea that the
Police estimates for the coming year should include provision for a police station in my
electorate. That is a fairly modest request, and I am sure it is not one that will overwhelm
those in Treasury who have the duty of assessing priorities. The presence of police in an area
deters crime more than anything else, and at this stage the efficiency of police operations is
necessary for social security. Notwithstanding the best endeavours of those from regional
headquarters who work in the area, the impact of a firm, positive police presence, obvious
within the electorate, is not felt. I make that request, and I do so in the name of the people
who have expressed that wish of late. As recently as today I saw a letter in the New Zealand
Herald referring to the climate of violence and the deterioration in the feeling of security that
people in the Mangere electorate might enjoy.
I also make a plea for departments to communicate with people, and to bring decision-
making more into the arena. I refer particularly to the information I have received that a
post-primary school is to be built in Bader Drive in Mangere. The proposed school will be a
short distance from the existing Mangere College, and on the same road; and it will be a
short distance from Ngatapuwae College, and on the same road. It will have an intermediate
section that will be about 300 yards from the existing Arahunga intermediate school-and
there are no houses between the proposed school and Arahunga. A motorway will be to the
east of the school, a four-lane highway to the south, an extensive reserve to the north, and a
fire station to the west. What consultations were held that led to the proposal to establish the
school there? What type of course will be offered? Will it provide an academic course, or will
it provide a background to industry or technology? Or will it be yet another community
college? The answers to those questions are not known, but the intention to build the school
there has been flagged by laying the drains. It is clear that there is not enough communica-
tion. What consultations does the Government have with people who ought to be involved in
making such decisions? That type of action is fundamental to the feeling that pervades this
country.
I do not hold with those of my brethren who say that the emigration from New Zealand
is purely the result of economic stress. I do not hold with those who think in terms of money
as the factor that deters or advances, but point out that we have a Government elected on
the firm promise of economic and social assurance, at a time when the people were feeling
the shock of the first waves of inflation from a new world economic order. They are still
experiencing the ripples of that shock, but we do not have a Government capable of
motivating people or of bringing out the best in them. Where is there in Government policy a
determination to tax excessive consumption or penalise it? Where is there in the Budget any
evidence of the Government's determination to give incentives to increase productivity?
Where is there in Government statements any mention of the environment? I welcome the
Manukau Harbour study, but where is there in the Budget just presented anything leading
New Zealand to the horizon of being able to adapt to what is undoubtedly a new economic
order?
The tragedy is that the Government has inevitably assumed that the pursuit of affluence
and consumerism is a political opiate that will stir people to seek refuge behind superficially
strong men who are incapable of bringing out the best in people, and are certainly productive
of division and distress. Some Government members have that strong conviction themselves.
Now is the time, in the interests of the country, for their presence as men and women of
integrity to be felt in the Government, which, at least for the next few months, will be
responsible for guiding the lives of more than 3 000 000 people. The Budget contains
nothing, apart from a few words of tokenism at the end, to show that the Government has
faith in the people, but that is a fundamental point from which it should start. It knows, or
ought to know, that people are not moved by economic carrots, and that the economy and
the social welfare of the country do not depend on national superannuation. I am sure
Government members know that. How will the country be enhanced by the Government's
taking a projected $750 million-odd extra in income tax and handing out only $85 million in
single-income supplements?
Mr Malcolm: Is the member opposed to that?
Mr LANGE: Do I understand that the member for Eden has a bleeding heart?
Mr Malcolm: It might be called that.
Mr LANGE: If that is right, he has had an extreme change of approach. However, I
welcome his interest, because he is a person who has a background in social work and he


## p. 1983 (#439) ###########################################

5 August
1983
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
knows what motivates people. Let his voice be heard in the Government caucus, and let it be
translated into action. The challenge to the Government is to lead the country into proper
and social human development, but it is utterly failing in that task.
Miss DEWE (Lyttelton): When listening to the member for Mangere I was strongly
reminded of Mark Antony's oration over the dead body of Julius Caesar; and we all know
where that led to a revolution. I am seriously concerned about where the oratory of the
member for Mangere may lead the Labour Party. He referred to the member for Hobson as
a Moses. I am wondering if he thought of himself as the new Messiah or, if not that, at least
as John the Baptist; but he was crying in the wilderness, and I cannot think that the member
for Mangere pictures himself as doing that. He said that the National Party had not expected
to win the 1975 election. I believe he has it back to front; the Labour Party did not expect to
lose. It was the greatest shock to the systems of members opposite, and they have not
recovered from it yet. They will have to consider very seriously whether, in their present
disarray, they have the slightest chance of regaining the Treasury benches. They had better
look to their own house, and tidy it up very quickly.
The member for Mangere also said how much he admired and respected the integrity of
members on this side of the House. The imputation, of course, was that he also possessed
integrity; but when a member quotes figures from the Budget and gives only half the story I
wonder whether he is really displaying what I regard as true integrity. He said that the
National Government had borrowed more than any previous Government. I point out that
when the National Government went out of office in 1972 the total overseas debt was
basically the same figure as that shown for 31 March 1973 in table No. 13 of the Budget,
which was quoted by the member for Mangere—$563 million—but when the accounts as at
31 March 1976 were prepared, New Zealand's total overseas debt amounted to $1,463
million.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: How much?
Miss DEWE: A total overseas debt of $1,463 million, as shown in table No.13 on page
57 of the Budget. The Labour Government was the greatest borrower New Zealand has ever
seen, as has been fully recorded throughout the country's commercial sectors. I could speak
at length on what the member for Mangere said, but I shall just refer to his comment that the
people in his area do not have a railway. Does the member not know that Papatoetoe has a
most substantial station with perhaps the greatest patronage in the Auckland area? Mr Bob
White, the Mayor of Papatoetoe, is one of the most active supporters and promoters of the
commuter rail service, and is absolutely delighted to see the proposals outlined in this
Budget. I suggest that if the member for Mangere does not know his electorate very well it
might be to his advantage to take a brisk walk around it one weekend. He might learn a great
deal and also it would be very good for him indeed.
Mr Birch: A brisk walk by the member for Mangere?
Miss DEWE: Yes, we would all be delighted to see him do it. The opening address in
this debate by the Leader of the Opposition made me think back to the night he opened the
1975 general election campaign for the Labour Party. I remember saying in public that his
address was reprehensible, because it did not mention agriculture, which is so important to
New Zealand. Last Tuesday, when he opened this 1977 Budget debate, he displayed similar
indifference to the importance to New Zealand of agriculture, and also ignored the growing
importance of the fishing industry and the challenge it presents. He touched very briefly on
agriculture, but did not once allude to the Budget proposals for the growth and encourage-
ment of the fishing industry. The similarity to his 1975 speech was most marked. Where did
the Leader of the Opposition learn his economics, if he did learn them, and how much has he
actually remembered? I remind him of the simple but vital fact that 80 percent of New
Zealand's overseas earnings are derived from agricultural industries.
On page 11 of the Budget, under the heading "Farming", we read: "Farming is our
greatest single earner of overseas income. If, therefore, our overseas earnings are to increase
at the rate required to provide a sound basis for economic growth, agricultural production
must play a central role. The Government is determined that farmers be given every
incentive to undertake the substantial investment required if increases in farm production
are to be achieved." Even if the Leader of the Opposition is not aware of the importance to
New Zealand of our agricultural industries and the fishing potential in the seas, the
Government has reflected in the Budget its awareness of the need to encourage those
industries to trade profitably if New Zealand is to survive.
Last session, the Opposition referred to the publication Trans Tasman as “a scurrilous
document". The 28 July 1977 issue, commenting on this year's Budget, said that it displayed


## p. 1984 (#440) ###########################################

1984
5 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the main differences between the two parties. The philosophies between the two parties
were so completely different that, while the Labour Party wanted to reconstruct the taxation
system, to pull it apart, and rebuild it to give incentives to the people, the 1977 Budget,
instead, would apply incentives for success. The commentator further pointed out that,
although the Budget was limited in some respects, the principles were important, because
too often economic progress in New Zealand had been defeated by philosophies which
penalised success and rewarded failure.
Mr Malcolm: And that was the Labour Party's philosophy?
Miss DEWE: Yes, that was the Labour Party's philosophy. Recently we heard the
member for Manukau promising to overhaul the tax structure when Labour was re-elected
and charging that the rates of tax were "crippling" to the average New Zealand taxpayer.
Well, let us lay the blame where it belongs, at the feet of the previous Labour Government.
The member completely omitted to add that in its 1975 Budget the Labour Government
introduced new tax scales applicable for 1975 and 1976, and further new tax scales for 1976
and 1977.
Mr Malcolm: Whose tax tables were these?
Miss DEWE: They were the Labour Government's 1975 Budget tax tables and, for the
first time, New Zealand's rates of tax went up substantially. Whereas the previous maximum
tax rates had been about 50c in the dollar, what did we get in 1975? We had a maximum rate
then of up to 60c in the dollar. Many qualified tradesmen, or people with trade skills and
expertise, are capable of earning between $12,000 and $14,000, if not more, and at that level
of income the tax rates are heavy indeed and come into what used to be the maximum level
of 50c.
Mr Malcolm: Who put them there?
Miss DEWE: That was done by the Labour Government. It penalised those with skills
and ability who are capable of earning for themselves and their families and contributing to
New Zealand's expertise. We heard complaints about taxation being a restraint on produc-
tivity and then we were treated to the financial advice of the member for Manukau, who told
us that a Labour Government would once again restructure the tax rates. That leads me to
wonder if a Labour Government would do as it did in 1975 and restructure them upwards to
the detriment of all those who have skills and expertise. Do members opposite sleep
soundly, knowing they have inhibited industry and the industriousness of every New
Zealand worker for whom they have always said they have such great concern.
I wonder what the Labour Party's objective is. A booklet came out at the time of the
Labour Party conference—a little red book-called It is time to think. It gave me a lot to
think about when I read it. It contains an essay written by Mr F. D. O'Flynn, Q.C. who used
to be the member for Kapiti. That seat is now held by the National member for Kapiti.
Talking about philosophies, the former member for Kapiti said: "Labour believes that the
wealth and resources of New Zealand belong to all New Zealanders. Its objective is to
ensure a fair distribution of the country's wealth among all New Zealanders and to prevent
the undue concentration of wealth or control of resources by a few or for sectional groups."
That is something most of us would not disagree with. "Such an objective can only be
obtained if the Labour Party adopts as its basic economic and political philosophy a modern
definition of socialism."
The former member gives a suitable short definition of socialism as “a society in which
all the fundamental or important economic and social decisions are taken in the interests of
the whole community, and not in the interests of or under economic or other pressure of
particular sectional groups". Once again there is not much in that definition with which most
New Zealanders would disagree. Then he states, "Socialism today does not mean the
nationalisation of the means of production, distribution, and exchange, though it does mean
control over the means of production in the interests of the community." If that does not
mean direction or ownership then I should like to know what control means.
Finally: "Some of the other means of achieving effective socialism suggested by modern
economists are real and undisguised capital gains taxes, perhaps a wealth tax, and steps to
ensure that railway development and expansion take priority over road transport and road
building, steps to ensure that rebuilding of the public health service takes priority over
existing private health services, and similarly for schools." Where is private enterprise being
left, with that? Where is the individual being left who is determined to achieve a better life
for himself and his family by working hard to provide them with a home, a car, and a little
comfort?
In its search for a definition of socialism the Labour Party still has a long way to go. It


## p. 1985 (#441) ###########################################

5 August
1985
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
seems to be more concerned about that than about whether New Zealand is trading
profitably, whether it has jobs for its people, or whether its industry is flourishing in a way
that is profitable. The Labour Party is more concerned about socialism and the control of
production at the expense of the private individual who is prepared to risk his capital for the
betterment and advancement of New Zealand, its people, and, in the process, himself.
We have heard a great deal from the Opposition about what the Budget does not do,
and very little about what it does, and what it contains. The Budget is an incentive for
success. I have referred to the tax structure. Although tax relief was not made available
generally, I am pleased that the Budget contains a recognition that certain areas in the
community needed relief—that it was not only necessary but essential—and that this was
particularly so with the single-income family and with the family with younger children. The
Budget provisions to enable a rebate for single-income families with a child under 10, which
will also be available to widows and solo parents, is a step in the right direction. The rebate
of $208 a year, or $4 a week, will also allow the principal income earner to be eligible for the
young-family rebate if he has children under 5 years as well.
I notice with very great pleasure, that there is also a generous increase in that the
provision for a rebate of $6 a week on incomes up to $100 now becomes $9 a week on
incomes up to $150. That is a very handsome increase. I was also pleased to see that some
relief is given to the wife who works part time, through the wife's rebate in her husband's tax
return. That will mean that the rebate will not be affected at all if she earns up to $520 a year.
On page 44 of the Budget is a weekly table showing the totals that are allowable for
people with children under the age of 5, and the effect the single-income rebate will have. A
person can earn up to $180 a week and still be eligible for a $10 tax rebate, which I think is
worth while and generous. Relief has been given where it is essential. Couples bringing up
small children who need the care of a mother at home, and endeavouring to save or meet the
cost of establishing themselves in a home, need Government assistance. This is a step in the
right direction, and I trust that a larger step will be taken next year.
The duty levied on alcohol and tobacco also meets with my approval, despite the
comments of the member for Avon about the charge on the workers' beer. An increase of 1c
on a glass and 5c on a jug of beer is not a great imposition when one considers that the aim of
the tax is to allow the Government to spend more money on health, particularly in
community and preventive medicine. No responsible citizen would begrudge paying this tax.
The cost of health services because of the abuse of both alcohol and tobacco, and the charge
on the taxpayer, and the burden on the hospital services, should be paid for by those who
possibly place the greatest demand on the State health service.
The public accounts for the year ended 31 March 1977 show that the Government
collected $46.5 million in beer duty alone. That does not lead me to believe that there has
been any restriction on the consumption of beer because of financial hardship. The
Government collected $29.9 million from taxation levied on totalisator and on-course
betting-more than $100 for every man, woman and child—so I am confident that an extra
cent on a glass of beer will not greatly affect dedicated beer drinkers.
The Leader of the Opposition condemned this tax, and said that the Government
expected to receive $18 million in this financial year and $27 million next year. He then said
that only $4 million extra would be spent on community health. He completely ignored the
increase in the Department of Health vote. Expenditure on hospital services is expected to
exceed $568 million this financial year, with an increase of $83 million over the last financial
year in hospital services alone. Built into that is $4.5 million for community services, which
will be funded from that particular programme. In addition, an extra $13.5 million is
provided in the vote to be spent directly on community health. An extra $18 million will be
spent on community health—not $4 million as the Leader of the Opposition tried to convince
the public.
Mr Malcolm: He didn't succeed.
Miss DEWE: I hope he did not, because it is not true. The total increase in the
Department of Health vote is more than $80 million. Funds will be made available for the
establishment of health centres, and for assistance for occupational health services. I
applaud the imposition of a 1c tax on cigarettes, beer, and spirits, because it will allow the
Minister of Health to achieve the objectives that everybody wants to see realised. I should
now like to talk about health centres, which is a subject close to my heart. The Labour
Government promised to build a health centre in my electorate, but nothing has been done.
The health centre would be serviced by local doctors. Nurse Maude would be able to care for
the aged and the infirm from this centre, the Waterfront Industry Commission could


## p. 1986 (#442) ###########################################

1986
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
establish its emergency casualty service there, and therapeutic care could be made available
to the community. The amalgamation under one roof of all health services in Lyttelton is
urgently needed, and to this end I have been involved in discussions with the general
practitioners, the Lyttelton Borough Council, the North Canterbury Hospital Board, and
the Waterfront Industry Commission to try to find a means of establishing the centre as
quickly as possible.
Mr Kirk: It hasn't happened.
Miss DEWE: No, it has not happened yet, but it is much nearer than it would have been
under a Labour Government. The scheme has foundered on the basis of economics, because
the cost of the building would have been so exorbitant that the tenants would not have been
able to afford the rental. Because of the proposals I have put before the Minister, and his
receptiveness, I hope that before long the health centre will be a reality.
The Opposition has also totally ignored the provision of inflation-adjusted savings
bonds. The Opposition has not mentioned them, because it is annoyed that it did not dream
up this scheme. The inflation-adjusted bonds will have great appeal to the small saver, and
they are a credit to the member for Piako, who introduced a private member's Bill that was
turned down by the Labour Government on the ground that the bonds would not be
successful. Well, it is going to work, and it is now going to be a reality. What is its basis? The
maximum investment by any individual will be $1,000 in any 1 year, and the bonds must be
held for a minimum of 5 years. Their great advantage is that they are fully protected against
inflation, and that will benefit people on lower incomes, people who are saving for their
retirement or for a motor car or a trip overseas or something like that—and I am thankful to
say there are still some such people left in our community. The basis of the inflation-proofing
of the bonds will be that their redemption value will be increased to coincide with the
increase in the consumer price index over the period of the bond. That adjustment will be
exempt from income tax.
Mr Malcolm: As well as keeping pace with inflation?
Miss DEWE: That is what the adjustment does. In addition, interest at a minimum rate
of 2 percent-small, but interest nevertheless-will be paid on the bonds, but will be taxable.
Only private individuals will be entitled to hold the bonds, and the maximum holding for any
one person will be $5,000. I hope that lots of people will have a bond. It is a revolutionary
policy. It is extremely important that small savers should realise its worth and realise that this
facility for saving is available to them. Opposition member have not said that they dislike the
bonds, but they have not said they like them. I should like a member opposite to commend
the Government for having the foresight to introduce them.
I have not dealt with many other matters for which provision is made in the
Budget-farming, energy, export incentives to the manufacturing industry, social welfare,
education, housing, or even fishing, which I intended to mention. As was said in Trans
Tasman, the Budget is a document that is an incentive for success. I point out to the
Opposition that although certain criticisms of the Budget have been made by the public there
has been less criticism of it than of many others in previous years, and certainly less criticism
than there was of any Budget introduced by the Labour Government in its 3 years in office.
The member for Petone said it was a pepper-pot budget, a bits-and-pieces Budget, and
commented that criticism along those lines had been made. Those criticisms came from
Opposition members, not from the farming sector, the industrial sector, or the manufactur-
ers or road transport operators. They were the criticisms of Opposition members, who have
been very hard-pressed indeed to find subjects to introduce into this debate rather than
discussing the Budget itself. They have studiously ignored the Budget and its proposals.
New Zealand has been going through a desperate economic crisis. The country can go in
either one of two ways. It can plunge further into economic depression, with rampaging
inflation, soaring costs, lower profitability, less capital investment, and greater unemploy-
ment. That would lead to a very dark future. The alternative is to go forward to a better and
more secure future, with the ability for New Zealand to control its own destiny and not be
subject to the booms and depressions which have upset it so often in the past. That future
must be ours, and it must be based on a thriving internal economy with productive, hard-
working, and industrious people. The attainment of that goal requires control by a
Government with a strong economic policy. The National Government has that policy and
has the ability to carry it out. I am grateful to be a member of that Government, and proud
to be part of it.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN (Southern Maori): The member for
Lyttelton highlighted a point of distinction between the philosophies of the parties when she


## p. 1987 (#443) ###########################################

5 August
1987
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
reiterated that the Budget provides rewards for the successful. I agree with her that that is a
point of significant philosophical difference between National and Labour. I point out to her
that it takes very little demographic analysis to demonstrate that not everyone in New
Zealand is in a category that can be described, in money-income terms, as successful, yet the
device of inflation-proof savings introduced in the Budget will be inaccessible to these
people. This device is for the successful only. People on an average or less than average
income will be unable to benefit. That is the distinction. The proposal will be enjoyed by
those whose income enables them to participate, but there is a multitude of people,
especially families with dependent children, who will never be able to participate in this
scheme. It is a bonus for the successful, but it will not benefit the vast majority of people who
earn less than the average ordinary-time wage.
Miss Dewe: How many earn less than the average wage?
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN: I shall answer the member. I am
speaking of one complete family, with a mother, a father, and children. There are 17 000
families with one child, which have a total household income, excluding social security
benefits, of less than the average ordinary-time wage. I shall speak later of solo-parent
families. Fifteen thousand couples with two children, 9000 families with three children, 4000
families with four children, and more than 3000 families with five or more children have a
total household income, excluding social security, of less than the average ordinary-time
wage. At least 48 000 families, consisting of both parents and one or more children, earned
less than the average ordinary-time wage as at 31 March 1976.
I turn now to the current assessment by "Checkout" in the Evening Post of 3 August,
which indicates that last week food costs for a family with two children were $56. How many
families with a mother and father and more than one child earn enough before tax to pay that
amount? Two thousand five hundred New Zealand families with two children do not earn
enough to pay even that weekly food bill of $56. The latest household survey by the
Department of Statistics, published on 14 July, gives the average weekly outgoings of
families as $124. We are indebted to the department for these household surveys. The first
survey was taken between 1973 and 1974, and the survey just published is the second
undertaken by that department.
How many families consisting of both parents and one or more children receive an
income of $124 a week before tax? Thirty-eight thousand families with one child, 45 000
families with two children, 26 000 families with three children, 11 000 families with four
children, and 'more than 6000 families with five or more children earn less than a gross
income of $124 a week. That means that 126 000 families with both parents and one or more
children earn less than is needed according to the latest household survey. Those families are
ignored by the Budget, because it caters only for the successful.
I am not in any way critical of successful people, but I should like to see more New
Zealand families attain that status. That is the effective application of democratic
socialism-more sharing in the productivity of the country. It does not preclude those who
can enjoy them from receiving profits, but it does insist that more people share in the
productivity of the country. Socialism is the philosophy of a society that lives and works
together and shares the wealth it possesses. I am proud to have been part of a culture that
practises this philosophy, and I am proud to belong to a party that seeks to share the
country's wealth without denying the right of profits to those who earn them justifiably and
reasonably.
The main justification of this Budget, as well as last year's, is to maintain an incredibly
expensive national superannuation scheme at a time when we are in an economic recession.
This is an indictment of the Government, and distinguishes between the two parties in
Parliament. I cannot use the term "socially criminal", but at a time of stress and difficulty,
when we are asked to tighten our belts and when so many families are unable to do so any
more, it is almost immoral to devote an extensive amount of our taxation income to many
who are already well above average in their income, comforts, and status. The difficulties
imposed on families by a Government policy designed to finance national superannuation
have caused considerable stress. In providing for national superannuation, the Government
has conducted a consistent and relentless onslaught on families, particularly those to which I
have referred.
New Zealand families are being ruthlessly transplanted from their home territory
because factories are closing down. A number of families have been deprived of a regular
income because the income earner has become redundant. New Zealand families are being
compulsorily relocated in the hope that the income earner will find another job-and the


## p. 1988 (#444) ###########################################

1988
5 August
Appropriation Bill- Financial Statement
member for Pahiatua must be well aware of this-because there is no employment in some
areas. New Zealand families are faced with the fact that other work may not be available,
and as a result they are under great duress. Families are uprooted from houses they cannot
sell, and houses they cannot pay for because of the interest rates on their mortgages. They
are forced to go to areas where they cannot pay for other houses, or where they cannot
afford to pay rent. Families are even being forced to leave New Zealand; there has been a
massive exodus of skilled workers we cannot afford to lose, because we depend on only 60
percent of our total population as the labour force to provide taxes to cover our normal
social and community services. What is excessive to me is the manner in which this
Government happily imposes further impositions because it is obligated to finance a national
superannuation scheme.
Families are undergoing tremendous stress. Stress is an inevitable part of the condition
of human social living. Each person has a breaking point. Each human being subject to
sufficient stress will break down physically and mentally, depending on his physical or
emotional health at the time. It is certainly not the role of a wise and good Government to
impose further stress on a significantly increasing sector of the population-of our
families-through its policies, as has happened under this Government. The stress on the
solo parent is even greater, and anyone who has studied child behaviour or human behaviour
knows that a stressful parent produces a stressful child; so the imposition on a solo parent is
even greater than that on families that have both parents.
I have observed greater stress in New Zealand over the past 18 months than in the past
decade. There is the stress of employees who may not have a job next week, the stress of
those who have become redundant through the closure of industries in provincial regions.
Sometimes the major industry in an area has had to close. There is the stress of solo
parents-I refer, of course, to the domestic purposes beneficiaries—who in this Budget are
being victimised and made to feel guilty. A Government that through its policies imposes
stress on human beings, particularly on families, and more especially on solo parents, is not a
wise and good Government. It is not governing to provide the greatest happiness for the
greatest number. It is not a wise Government if it does not share the productivity of all its
community with those in need. The Government's policies are increasing the everyday
incidence of stress, the debilitating pressure on families, parents, solo parents, housewives,
and children.
Mindful that we are discussing the Budget, why did the Government, under the guise of
conservation—as stipulated in the printed words of the Budget-impose a hefty tax on the
domestic electric drying machine? Why did the Government, in all the collective wisdom of
its benchers and its Cabinet, decide to impose a tax on that commodity? It certainly does not
directly lead to conservation-and 'that illogicality in the Budget amazed me--but it does
deprive the women, the housewives, and the mothers of an almost fundamental need,
particularly in areas such as Wellington. I wonder if any Government member has ever had
to do a family wash?
Hon. Members: Yes.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN: Then anyone who has done that, and
yet imposes that extra tax, has no consideration for the back-breaking effort that is often
involved in washing when the weather has to be relied upon to dry it. It takes longer. Have
Government members ever concerned themselves about the mothers with children? Do they
know the difference when a nappy is dried in an electric dryer and dried on the line in any
weather?
Mr Latter: We haven't got a dryer.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN: I see a sea of ignorant faces opposite.
None of the members opposite, although most of them have families, apparently realises
that nappies are softer and cause less nappy rash when they are dried in the electric dryer.
They appear to be unaware of the housework their wives have to do, despite their
protestations of concern for women.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member must not be too zealous about nappy
rash.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN: Our children are affected, because the
incidence of nappy rash is greater when the nappies dry harder. [Interruption.] I find it
fascinating that Government members consider this a joke. They exhibit their ignorance and
their lack of consideration. Most of them have families, some of them large, yet they
permitted that sales tax to be imposed on dryers—a fundamental and important commodity.
Every housewife and every mother should be reminded of the Government's inconsiderate-


## p. 1989 (#445) ###########################################

5 August
1989
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
ness. It is an example of its lack of perception of the needs of women, mothers, and families.
Another thing families cannot afford now is a holiday. The Government is insensitive to the
needs of people, because stress is exacerbated by the inability of a family to travel away and
have a break. No wonder the meeting held by the Widows and Widowers Association
recently, and which I attended, expressed its deep concern at the insensitivity of the
Government.
Mr Lithgow: That's untrue.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I think I heard the interjection, "That's untrue." That must be
withdrawn.
Mr Lithgow: I withdraw.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN: Not even the election pledge that the
allowance for three or more children in a family would be increased was honoured in the
second Budget. The association expressed both its disappointment and its considerable
disapproval that this election commitment had not been honoured.
I have made four points in particular this morning, and my time is almost at an end for
this week. I have pointed out that the Government legislates for the successful, but not every
sector of our population comes within that category. The Government is insensitive to the
housework burdens of our women and parents generally, solo parents, and particularly
beneficiaries. The Government has increased the stresses and taken away much of the
humour that has customarily been present in many households, all because it has had to
justify the payment of the $930 million that national superannuation is costing this year. How
much will it cost next year? Taxes were raised by $740 million, yet the Government exhorts
families earning less than the average ordinary-time wage to tighten their belts even further.
There is very little more they can do to tighten their belts, without going without the basic
necessities of life.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 1 p.m.


## p. 1990 (#446) ###########################################

1990
9 August
Oral. Answers to Questions
TUESDAY, 9 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
SITTING HOURS OF THE HOUSE
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): With the leave of the House, I
move, That the hours of sitting tomorrow be from 2.30 p.m. to 6.30 p.m.
Motion agreed to.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Commerce Act-Criteria for Capital Cost of Production
1. Hon. Dr. A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt.
Albert), asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: What allowance for a contribution to the
capital cost of future production is permitted manufacturers under the criteria used for the
price control provisions of the Commerce Act?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): No specific
allowance is normally permitted manufacturers for a contribution to capital cost of future
production in respect of goods under the Commerce Act.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: Is it not a matter of breaching principle that a similar opportunity is
extended to the Government in its electricity and Post Office charging practices?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: These matters are not dealt with under the
Commerce Act. They are specific matters related to Government policy. There is a very
distinct difference between the two parties on this, which was fought out at the last election
campaign.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: Are commercial principles not to be adopted by this private
enterprise Government?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: This Government supports sound business princi-
ples, as is seen in its administration to date.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Would the original answer to me have been different if a system
of inflation accounting were introduced and approved by the Commerce Commission?
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest that that is a
hypothetical question, and is out of order.
Mr SPEAKER: The point has been properly raised. The question is purely hypothetical,
and must be disallowed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Employment of Persons Previously on Special Assistance
2. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Labour: How many persons to
whom special assistance was given by way of subsidy to private employers last year are now
in permanent employment, and what was their age and sex?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): Last year, 178 workers were placed in
employment under the private sector subsidy scheme. The ages and sex of these workers
were: 16 years of age-17 males, 18 females; 17 years of age-20 males, 31 females; 18 years
of age-16 males, 20 females; 19 years of age-10 males, 5 females; 20 years of age-4
males, 5 females; 21 and over-29 males, 3 females; giving a total of 96 males and 82
females. I am not able to give the member details of the ages and sex of those workers
permanently retained when the scheme terminated. However, 71 workers were retained in
permanent employment when the scheme terminated. Three of these workers were in
apprenticeships, and this was very pleasing as it signified a long-term commitment to train
and employ in that job.
Mr Elliott: How many of these young people received their first job through this
scheme?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I cannot give that information accurately, inasmuch as I do not
know whether some had been previously employed or had had only very short-term


## p. 1991 (#447) ###########################################

9 August
1991
Oral Answers to Questions
employment. The scheme was designed to pick up young people who gave every indication
of tending to become permanently unemployed or unemployable.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Does the phrase "private employers" include local bodies; and
approximately what proportion of workers who continued in permanent employment were
in skilled or completely unskilled categories?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: None were employed by local bodies. This was purely private
sector employment. I have a table giving the breakdown of private, secondary, and servicing
sectors. Most workers were skilled. From memory, I think the greatest success was achieved
in Whangarei where 18 to 19 females were put into white work-clothing
manufacturing-and that is where I understand the greatest degree of permanent employ-
ment subsequently took place.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Fisheries Research Vessels-Industrial Dispute
3. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Is there any truth in the
article in the Evening Post of 28 July 1977 alleging that one of the ways to solve the strike
involving the two fisheries research vessels is to sell them, and, if not, what measures is the
Government contemplating to resolve this long-standing dispute?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Acting Minister of Fisheries): The suggestion that a way of
solving the strike would be to sell the vessels has never been seriously considered. In an
attempt to settle the current dispute, representatives of the State Services Commission and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will meet with the Seamen's Union shortly.
Mr Courtney: Are there definite plans to offer the disputing parties so that this matter
can be resolved as quickly as possible and they can all get on with the all-important task of
fisheries research in New Zealand waters?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: As I have indicated, the State Services Commission and the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries have plans. Several talks have been held with the
union, and the parties are getting together to see if the matter can be resolved.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: Can the Minister indicate the on-going cost while the vessels
are lying idle? I understand that quite a number of the crew-officers, engineers, and so
on--are permanent employees, so that their incomes must be sustained, and there must be—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We must not have a little speech. The question must be asked
and it will be answered if it is in order.
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: I do not have the figures with me. If the member would like to
ask another question I will obtain them for him.
Miss Dewe: Does the Minister have any information to the effect that some of the
permanent officers are being currently deployed on fisheries inspection on land?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: No, I do not have that information.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 25
4. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he tell the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 25 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee, which states: "That urgent consideration be given to extending
to other districts the scheme being operated in Napier and Christchurch whereby voluntary
social workers are actively encouraged to assist in the department's work and that considera-
tion be given to placing the country-wide development of this scheme under the guidance
and supervision of an officer in head office specially appointed for this purpose."?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): Steps are at present being taken to
obtain approval for the establishment of a new senior staff position in my department. The
officer appointed will be responsible for promoting and advancing the concept of the use of
volunteers in social case work and other areas to serve the welfare needs of people within the
community in the 29 social welfare districts.
Mr Downie: Can the Minister confirm that the pilot scheme, operating at the moment in
Napier, was set up 6 years ago under the last National Government?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I can confirm that. The scheme is operating particularly well
in Napier, and it is also being developed at present in Christchurch.
Mr Christie: Was the scheme first set up in Napier under the direction of the
Department of Social Welfare or was it as the result of the enthusiasm of the officer


## p. 1992 (#448) ###########################################

1992
9 August
Oral Answers to Questions
concerned?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I must give full credit to the enthusiasm of the officer concerned,
and the National Government was very pleased indeed to support him. He has done a
tremendous job.
Mr Wellington: Can I take it from the Minister's replies that he and the Government
attach high priority to the deployment of voluntary social workers especially in those areas
where they are required for supportive case work?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, there is a great opportunity for voluntary social work in this
area. The scheme is working well in Napier and in Christchurch, and I am sure it will be
welcomed in the other major social welfare districts.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
De Facto Relationships—Domestic Purposes Benefit
5. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is it correct, as stated in
chapter 5.3 of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee's report, that guidelines
have been laid down by the Social Security Commission for those district officers with the
delegated authority to determine whether or not a de facto relationship exists, and, if so,
how does he equate this finding with his answer to a written question from the member for
Raglan, given on 6 October 1976, that "It is not possible to set down such criteria. It is
necessary for the particular circumstances of each individual case and of each relationship to
be taken into account."?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): The guidelines referred to in the
report of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee are general procedural instruc-
tions for the guidance of district officers. While they contain reference to particular points
concerning a relationship which should be known before a decision is reached, they do not
represent the specific criteria to be used in forming a judgment as to whether a de facto
relationship exists. As I said in reply to the earlier question asked of me by the member for
Raglan, it is not possible to set down specific criteria to cover all cases. The particular
circumstances of each individual case and of each relationship must be taken into account.
Mr Lange: Has the department delegated to district officers the power to determine
whether a de facto relationship is in existence, and have those district officers been given
guidelines by the department to determine that point?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The answer to both questions is yes. However, in all cases a
person who unsuccessfully applies for a benefit has a right of appeal to the Social Security
Commission. If that is unsuccessful the person has the right to appeal again to the Social
Security Appeal Authority, and if that fails the matter can be taken to the Supreme Court.
Mr McLay: Can the Minister confirm that in the view of the department, and probably
in the view of all those who use the English language in a normal way, there is a considerable
difference between general guidelines on the one hand and specific criteria on the other?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I certainly do see a great difference between the two.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: In what way does the establishment of these guidelines differ
from the action the commission took some years ago in imposing restrictions on its freedom
to exercise a statutory discretion, an act which was then strongly criticised by the
Ombudsman?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I must confess that I am not sure of those previous guidelines. I
confirm that the ones currently in use give a discretion to the local officer, and experience
has shown that those guidelines and the authority given to the district officers have been used
with discretion and in a responsible manner.
Mrs Batchelor: Can the Minister clarify the situation further by telling the House exactly
what the guidelines are under which district officers act?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I think the best way to answer that question is to quote a few
sentences from the Act. Section 63(b) gives the Social Security Commission discretionary
authority to regard as husband and wife any man and woman who, not being legally married,
are in the opinion of the commission living together on a domestic basis as husband and wife.
The principle behind the legislation is that a couple who live on a domestic basis as husband
and wife should not be placed in a better situation in regard to the social security benefit than
a legally married couple. In a legal marriage the wife cannot in any circumstances draw a
domestic purposes benefit as a solo parent while living with her husband. Where a man and
woman so merge their lives that it would be reasonable to treat them no better and no worse
than a legally married couple, then for social security benefit purposes they would be


## p. 1993 (#449) ###########################################

9 August
1993
Oral Answers to Questions
regarded as husband and wife, but it would be quite wrong to place a couple living in a de
facto relationship in a better financial situation than a legally married couple by paying a
domestic purposes benefit to one party as a solo parent.
Mr SPEAKER: I hesitate to allow any more supplementary questions, because we have
had more than enough already. It is curious that whenever the term "social welfare" is
mentioned, we have a splurge of questions and we make no progress. I will allow one more.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Would the Minister be prepared to refer the propriety of this
action to the Chief Ombudsman as a special case?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Perhaps the member could clarify what he wants referred. The
report of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee clearly stated that the position
of de facto relationships would be kept constantly under review.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Nursing Graduates
6. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Health: Can he tell the House how
the number of graduate nurses recruited and trained in the technical colleges compares, as a
percentage, with those who are trained in the hospitals?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): In 1975, of the total number of 1169 nurses
granted registration, 46, or 3.94 percent, trained in technical institutes. In 1976, 1513 were
granted registration with 85, or 5.62 percent, from technical institutes. At 31 March 1977,
6252 student nurses were in training, and 465, or 7.44 percent, were in technical institutes.
Mr Downie: Can the Minister confirm that the extension of this scheme to Southland
and Waikato, which was announced in the Budget, is a result of the findings of the Carpenter
report set up by the previous National Government?
Hon. T. F. GILL: The Carpenter report recommended that as a gradual process nursing
education should be transferred from the Department of Health and the hospitals to the
Department of Education. The Government accepted this recommendation, which the
report stated would take a minimum of 10 or 11 years. By January next year this type of
training will be carried out in six districts. It is not proposed to proceed any further with this
scheme until there are sufficient nurses out of training and in employment to allow a proper
evaluation of the relative merits of the two methods of training to be carried out.
Mr Elliott: Is there any proposal to implement a combined technical institute and
hospital training programme, and, if so, would the Minister agree that the new Northland
Community College, which is sited close to the Northland base hospital, would be an ideal
place for such a pilot scheme?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I am sure that any establishment in Whangarei would be an ideal
place for any such experimentation. When the evaluation of the relative merits of the two
training schemes has been carried out, we will be able to establish whether there are any
other suitable methods. I should point out that the curriculum for technical institute training
in Auckland is quite different from the curriculum in Christchurch. Both schemes arrive at
the same results. Different methods achieve these results, and the proposal mentioned by
the member for Whangarei could well be a very acceptable one.
Mr Downie: Is the dropout rate in the technical institutes less than in the hospitals?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I do not have those figures, but I suggest they would be misleading,
because on the one hand we are dealing with about 7000 students and on the other hand we
are dealing with a small number of 5 or 6 percent. Whatever result you get over the short
term the scheme has been running could be misleading.
Question, transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
International Flights to Auckland and Christchurch
7. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Can he confirm that there are likely to be seven new international flights a week
into Auckland during the coming year, and, if so, has he considered rescheduling to
Christchurch some of the international flights arriving in Auckland?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
Applications for increased services have not yet been received from the respective airlines,
but it is possible that there could be an extra seven flights a week into Auckland during the
next 12 months. It is largely the commercial judgment of the international airlines which
determines how many flights they will operate into airports they are licensed to serve. At this


## p. 1994 (#450) ###########################################

1994
9 August
Oral Answers to Questions
stage, the demand for travel to and from Christchurch is insufficient to warrant extra
scheduled services.
Mr Kirk: Because of the accommodation pressures in Auckland, and the Government's
inability to cope with them, would the Minister urge the airlines concerned to redirect some
flights to Christchurch?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: As I have already pointed out, this is in the hands of the
airlines. Charter flights are arriving at Christchurch and then proceeding onwards, and they
are using the accommodation in Christchurch. The honourable member knows that I have
only a power of persuasion in this matter, but I will be happy to do that for Christchurch if I
can. Qantas and Air New Zealand alternate between a DC10 and a Boeing 747 to take up
the slacks that occur. In other instances, they use either a 707 or a DC8.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Personal Housing Loans Scheme
8. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: How many applica-
tions have been received to date under the personal housing loans scheme since its
introduction on 27 June, and how much money is involved in those applications?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): As at the close of business on 4 August,
136 applications to the value of $715,630 had been received for personal housing loans under
the scheme introduced on 27 June.
Mr Wellington: Can the Postmaster-General confirm that indications to date do not
bear out the Opposition's assertion that the total amount provided for the scheme is
inadequate?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: As I have just mentioned, the applications received to date
involve a figure of $715,630. When that is related to the total amount available under the
scheme, which is $5.2 million, or 85 percent of the amount currently invested in housing
bonds, I would say that the amount is so far proving very adequate indeed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Transport Pricing Policy
9. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he give an
assurance that the new transport pricing policy announced at the time of the Budget will not
mean that south-bound freight rates will increase by a substantial amount while north-bound
freight rates will increase by a smaller amount, or not at all?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): The new transport pricing policy
will mean that a minimum differential between north-bound and south-bound inter-island
freight rates will be introduced at the next freight rate review. The level of the differential
will depend on further analysis of the costs of the inter-island shipping operators—namely,
the Railways Department and the Shipping Corporation.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Is the Minister aware that the delay in announcing specific details
of the differential freight rate system is causing South Island industries problems with
forward planning, and that these industries need to know urgently the extent of such freight
differentials?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I pointed out to the honourable member last week that at
present a differential is built in, but I have to wait until the survey is completed and the
freight each way is ascertained before I can make a decision.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Medical Payments to General Practitioners
10. Mr BIRCH (Franklin) asked the Minister of Health: What is the average cost per
patient for a visit to a general practitioner, and how much of that cost is met by a
contribution from the State?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): Under the fee-for-service system applicable in
New Zealand the general practitioner is entitled to charge a fee that he considers is
appropriate to the time and skill in providing the service. Consequently, fees for consulta-
tions vary. The contribution by the State by way of general medical service benefits varies
from $1.25 to $7 a consultation, but averages out at $2.36. On an average gross fee of $5 the


## p. 1995 (#451) ###########################################

9 August
1995
Oral Answers to Questions
State pays $2.36 and the patient pays $2.64.
Mr Birch: Can the Minister give the amount spent by the State last year for general
medical service benefits?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I do not have that figure with me. Last year the State spent about $770
million on health.
Mr Isbey: Is the Minister aware that in the Auckland area the average charge by a
doctor is $4 for each patient?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I am not aware of that, and neither could the member for Grey Lynn
be aware of it because that figure has not been researched and is not available. That might be
the cost in the area where the member lives, but in other areas it could be $5.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Intellectually Handicapped Residential Homes
11. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Has he seen the
article in the Wanganui Herald of 2 July in which concern is expressed by the New Zealand
Society for the Intellectually Handicapped that capital assistance by the Government for
residential homes for the intellectually handicapped has been reduced, and, if so, can he
indicate what action he proposes to take to meet the society's objections?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): Yes, I have seen the article referred
to, but I assure the honourable member that in no individual case will the capital subsidy to
the New Zealand Society for the Intellectually Handicapped be reduced.
Mr Marshall: In view of the observations made in the statement in the Wanganui
Herald that the effect of the Budget announcement still leaves these homes well short of the
money required, is the Minister prepared to make any extra provisions to bridge the gap
between the new subsidy rate and the amount required to build the homes?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The effect of the Budget announcement was to give an increased
payment of $366,000 to those projects already approved in principle. I acknowledge that the
cost of building today is approximately $12,000 a bed. In the Budget the Government stated
that it would increase the subsidy from a maximum of $8,000 per bed to 66.66 percent with
no limit. At present I am having discussions with the society about this matter.
Mr McLay: Is the Minister aware that in January 1976 the North Shore branch of the
IHC obtained approval in principle for the construction of a 26-bed hostel which, by my
calculations, under the old subsidy would have been entitled to $208,000? Can the Minister
say what the subsidy will be under the new system announced in the Budget?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I can confirm that a 26-bed hostel has been approved for the
North Shore. The subsidy up until the Budget was $208,000, but the new subsidy will be
$247,000—that is, $9,500 a bed compared with $8,000 previously.
Mr Elliott: Can the Minister confirm that the cost per bed in some areas is as much as
$15,000, which means a subsidy of $10,000 under the new scheme, or 25 percent more than
the previous $8,000 maximum.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes. The cost per bed does vary in different parts of the country.
The figures I have with me show that the cost goes as high as $11,000 a bed, but I do believe
that in some areas the cost is $15,000 a bed.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Mr Speaker-
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to have to cut the questions short but we have done only one-
half of the questions in three-quarters of the time allowed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Mortgagee Sales, Wellington
12. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister of Justice: Within the Wellington Supreme
Court district how many sales have actually been effected by the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at the request of a mortgagee in each of the past 4 years, and, during the same years,
how many applications for such sales have been lodged with the registrar?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The actual numbers of mortgagee sales
effected by the Registrar of the Supreme Court at Wellington in each of the past 4 years
were: 1973, 1; 1974, 2; 1975, 17; 1976, 17. The applications lodged in each of these years
were: 1973, 13; 1974, 15; 1975, 52: 1976, 71.
Mr Brill: Do those figures indicate that a greater proportion of applications were
resolved by means other than an actual sale in 1976 than was the case in 1975?


## p. 1996 (#452) ###########################################

1996
9 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: It would appear so from the greater number that did not
proceed to sale in 1976.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Will the Minister confirm that a mortgagee wishing to foreclose
and realise on his security is not required to apply to the Registrar of the Supreme Court to
effect a sale, that there are other avenues open to him, and that these figures do not
represent the full story?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Obviously I do not have any information about the ready
availability of refinancing money that might have led to applications being withdrawn. As
the member for Kapiti has suggested in his question, the figures indicate that 1976 was an
improvement on 1975.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Chateau Commodore and THC
13. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon), on behalf of Mr KIRK (Sydenham), asked the Minister
of Tourism: Can he confirm that the Tourist Hotel Corporation has been involved in
negotiations concerning the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism): The Tourist Hotel Corporation was
initially, and informally, approached in 1976 on behalf of the Nauruan Government, which
was at that time considering the purchase of the Chateau Commodore properties. The
Tourist Hotel Corporation was asked to consider the possibility of administering a manage-
ment contract on behalf of the Nauruan Government should the properties be acquired. It is
believed that other organisations were similarly approached. Due to the Nauruan Govern-
ment's withdrawal of interest in buying the hotels the discussions between the two groups
ceased. I can confirm that the Tourist Hotel Corporation is not currently involved in any
negotiations concerning the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Armed Forces-Salaries Review
14. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Defence: At what stage is the
review of salaries for members of the armed forces; is the review to be backdated; and when
will a decision be announced?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence): A proposal for the major restructure
of the armed forces pay claim has been drafted by the Ministry of Defence. Because part of
the restructure involves the establishment of benchmark positions in the public service for
the purpose of translating periodic wage increases in the State services, and because the
Government requires a report on all such propositions by the State Services Co-ordinating
Committee, a joint State Services Commission-Defence working party is currently at work
and should complete its task by the end of August. The Government is likely to make its
decision by the beginning of October. The question of backdating has not been considered,
but in any case results from the review could not be applied before 11 October, which is the
end of the 12-month period from the date the last half-yearly survey was applied in the State
services.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Did the Labour Party, in its 1972 policy, promise a review, and was
the review ever carried out?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: Yes, it did, and it did nothing about it.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Can I take it from the Minister's original answer that new
service benchmarks have been determined for comparison with the State services and private
sectors of employment.?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: They have not yet been completed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hawke's Bay Hospital Board-Waiting List
15. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Health: Has he seen an article in the
Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 28 July 1977 in which the chairman of the Hawke's Bay
Hospital Board is reported as stating: "We can't justify a surgical waiting list of 1000 for
Napier alone with wards only half used. If it needs another surgeon then let's do it”, and, if
so, has he any plans to assist in reducing this list?


## p. 1997 (#453) ###########################################

9 August
1997
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I have seen the article referred to. The surgical
waiting list in Napier Hospital has not varied greatly up or down for the past 5 years. The
Hawke's Bay Hospital Board has recently taken a number of steps to improve the situation.
These include the appointment of a medical superintendent-in-chief of the board, and a
medical superintendent for the Napier Hospital, a full-time anaesthetist, and a campaign to
recruit suitably qualified nursing staff. The board also plans to review the accuracy of its
surgical waiting list to ensure that it contains only those still requiring surgery.
Mr Christie: The Minister said that the waiting list has not varied upwards or down-
wards in the last 5 years. Has he any figures for 5 years ago?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I have no figures for the waiting lists 5 years ago. I said, "The surgical
waiting list in Napier Hospital has not varied greatly up or down for the past 5 years.`
Mr Christie: Does the Minister have any figures to indicate how many surgical
operations have been performed at the private hospital in Napier this year?
Hon. T. F. GILL: No, I do not have those figures. This has no relationship to the
original question. If the member cares to ask a separate question I shall endeavour to get an
answer for him.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Bearing in mind the action being taken by the hospital board, is
the Minister, as he gives the impression of being, satisfied with the existing position in
Napier?
Hon. T. F. GILL: The member's aside, which had nothing to do with the question, was
that I appeared to be satisfied, and it has no basis in fact whatever. Nothing in my answer
could be construed in that way. I am extremely concerned at waiting lists anywhere, and at
the action that has been taken. Additional staff in a hospital does not necessarily reduce
waiting lists. A new ear, nose and throat specialist has been appointed in the Napier area,
and that immediately increased the waiting list. Additional people went on to the list because
of the availability of a new specialist.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Open-heart Surgery-Cost
16. Mr BIRCH (Franklin) asked the Minister of Health: What is the average cost of an
open-heart surgical operation in a public hospital, and is this cost fully met by the State?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The Auckland Hospital Board estimates that the
cost of an open-heart surgical operation in its Green Lane unit at present is between $2,500
and $4,000, depending on the type of operation performed. The cost is fully met by the State
for patients entitled to social security health benefits.
Mr Birch: Under what circumstances would a visitor to the country qualify for State
assistance for this type of surgery?
Hon. T. F. GILL: If the operation were the result of an accident, which is not usual, a
visitor would be covered by accident compensation. If people are here in a normal way on
holiday, or on a business trip, and require surgery urgently, they would then get it under
social security. If they came here specially to take advantage of our resources they would be
required to pay.
Mrs Batchelor: Anyone requiring such surgery at Green Lane who lives in Christchurch,
for instance, would have the added expense of air travel from his home to the hospital where
the operation is to be performed. If there any refund of that cost?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I am rather surprised to find that the member is so ill informed.
Where a hospital board refers a patient to another hospital board that has the required
facilities, the hospital board referring the patient pays the cost of travel, and to my
knowledge always has done.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is the cost estimate given by the Minister confined to above-the-
line figures, or does it include hidden costs that should be taken into account having regard
to the fact that the huge resources applied to this kind of operation are not available for
other types of operation?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I am surprised that a member with such perspicacity should suggest
that hidden costs could be taken into account. If they are hidden they are not taken into
account or is the member suggesting that I am hiding something? The answer, prepared by
the Auckland Hospital Board, is that the cost of an open-heart surgical operation at Green
Lane is between $2,500 and $4,000.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I heard that, but that does not refer to a below-the-line cost.
Don't you know what a below-the-line cost is?


## p. 1998 (#454) ###########################################

1998
9 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. T. F. GILL: Neither does it say that this is only an above-the-line cost. I gave the
answer given by the hospital board responsible for the operation and for the costing.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN (Southern Maori): On Friday I was
making the point that the 20 percent sales tax on domestic clothes dryers, allegedly
ntroduced as an energy conservation measure, merely adds to the cost of a labour-saving
device that is an integral part of every modern family home. The Government's insensitivity
was such that it chose from a wide range of appliances the domestic clothes dryer as one of
two items from which it hoped to get $20 million in extra revenue this year. This is the second
Budget brought down by this Government that has as its main purpose the raising of money
to finance national superannuation. Last year $330 million had to be raised, and this year the
amount estimated is $930 million. At a time when the Government is asking the whole
community to hold the line this propping up of an inappropriately timed scheme is ill-judged.
The Government's superannuation scheme is a reckless gesture introduced at a time when an
increasing number of families cannot earn even the national average income.
I gave figures showing that 48 000 nuclear families-single family households with both
parents and one or more children—had a total household income of less than the average
family income, less than the average ordinary-time weekly wage, and less than the amount
that would be paid out in national superannuation from the eighteenth of this month. That
could be described as socially criminal. The Government wants to hold the line with this
Budget. To increase productivity it must revive New Zealanders generally depressed spirits,
uplift their morale, and above all invest more resources in people.
Clearly, the Government's second Budget further delineates our society into two
groups: those whose earnings are above the average ordinary-time weekly wage; and the
increasing number who earn less than that. The latest figures from the Department of
Statistics substantiate this unfortunate picture. Regrettably, our community is losing what
homogeneity it once had; the gap between the two segments has increased since this
Government took office. It concerns me deeply, because Polynesian New Zealanders are
predominant among the lower income group. It is sad that in the Budget there is more
concern for national superannuation and its funding than there is with initiating long-term
planning to remove the educational disparity that will further generate the distinction and
separateness of our population.
I am deeply concerned, for instance, because the recent report prepared for the
Minister of Recreation and Sport reveals an appalling situation in which those of greatest
concern to us are being emptied out of our secondary schools as if they were social flotsam
and jetsam and they have not been taught anything that would qualify them to earn a living.
It is sad to read the report by Terry McDavit, who makes it clear that the school system has
failed these people. He points out that wherever youth centres have been established most of
their clientele are Polynesian or Maori. In Otara it is mostly Polynesian; In Te Puke-Otara it
is 98 percent Polynesian; in the Kihikihi youth club it is 80 percent Maori; in the Mangakino
youth club it is 95 percent Maori; in the Rotorua youth forum coffee house it is 80 percent
Maori; the Napier Downtown-Y is largely Maori; the Havelock North youth club is mostly
Maori. The base in Masterton is mostly Maori; and in the 6A youth club in Christchurch 90
percent are Maoris. Only in Dunedin, in the Burns Hall which has now been closed and the
South Dunedin youth club is it the non-Maori who dominates the clientele of these clubs
coping with youth at risk. If only more money were invested in the youth of our country we
would not see this increasing incidence of a new group of unemployable youth.
Believing as much as I do that the country's economic success depends in the final
analysis on people, that people are our nation's most crucial resource, and that our country's
efficient productivity depends on them, it is clearly a false economy to restrain Government
expenditure in areas where thoughtful and sensitive expenditure based on long-term policy
programming would have a final effect of increasing the skills, expertise, self respect, and
self confidence of people. Any system not designed to provide the means for every group in
the community to effectivively grasp and use the advantages of formal education, vocational
training, and continuing education should be reappraised. Clearly, now is the time for the
Government to do that.
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): When the honourable lady member


## p. 1999 (#455) ###########################################

9 August
1999
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
who has just resumed her seat was speaking in the debate last Friday the main thrust of her
comments was that today because of the increased tax on dryers, babies are getting nappy
rashes. I do not know how the millions of babies got on before the invention of automatic
dryers. However, I think that today, after watching television, people with young children
buy the popular paper nappies that can be disposed of without washing and which, the
advertisement tells us, the baby is so keen about.
The honourable member also referred to national superannuation as a "reckless
gesture". As the Associate Minister of Social Welfare in the last Labour Government she
must take some responsibility for the introduction by that Government of the New Zealand
superannuation scheme.
I commiserate with the members of the Labour Opposition in the public mess they are
in over the appointment of candidates for parliamentary seats. The present Labour members
are publicly fighting over who is going to stand for the Auckland Central seat. Then we have
another former Labour member challenging the sitting member in Onehunga, and two
former Labour members fighting publicly over the Papatoetoe seat. What a public spectacle
this is! Labour members are running round like frightened rabbits looking for a burrow to
hide in. The point is, if Labour members cannot manage their own affairs how on earth can
they manage the affairs of the country? The fact that they cannot manage the country is
evident when we look at what happened between 1957 and 1960, and again from 1972 to
1975.
I have listened with some interest to the debate, and I am getting tired of the
depreciation of New Zealand and New Zealanders by the Labour Opposition. Throughout
the debate Labour speakers have shown that they are only too ready to more or less distort
facts and produce negative myths in an endeavour to score cheap political points. Everyone
in the House should recognise that the most fortunate thing that has happened to any New
Zealander is his having been born in this country. I hope members will remember that when
they are criticising what goes on and what is done by people in this country, whether they be
politicians, voluntary workers, welfare workers, or whatever. This country was built by a
productive private enterprise system, with equal opportunity for everyone, with the right to
work and to use one's own initiative and enterprise. It is a country where there is incentive
for those who are prepared to work. The outcome has been a country as fortunate as New
Zealand. Could the same have been achieved by the socialist Labour Government with its
fanatic desire for concentrated power, its fanatic desire to restrict the freedom of the
individual, and its fanatic desire to give special privileges to the few?
The high standard of living we have today in this fine country of ours could not have
been achieved under a socialist system. The Labour Opposition, which seems quite incap-
able of even selecting its own candidates, has no constructive policy, so it considers it has to
destroy the Government's policy. How is it endeavouring to achieve this? Through a policy
of fear. Members opposite have said that the country cannot afford national superannuation,
that the superannuitants are now worse off, that the people on low incomes are being taxed
to pay for superannuation for the rich, and that children will suffer. This afternoon I shall
analyse some of the claims made by the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition, the spokesman on welfare, and others, and show that their claims have no
validity. Had the Labour Government's superannuation scheme continued, its cost this year
would have been greater than the cost of national superannuation.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Rubbish!
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I will give the member the facts and figures to prove that what I
say is correct. National superannuation is being paid without any increase in tax. but the
Labour Government's scheme was being financed in toto from additional tax and a payroll
tax. National superannuation is the most advanced social legislation ever introduced in this
country, and like most other such legislation was introduced by the National Government.
At the last election the Labour Party claimed that national superannuation would not work
and that the people would be worse off. However, the scheme has been introduced without
any fuss or bother and without any increase in taxation, and is an unqualified success. The
Labour Government's scheme would not have been fully implemented until the year 2023.
Have you ever heard anything so ridiculous! The national superannuation scheme was
introduced this year and will be fully implemented next year. The Labour Government's
scheme discriminated against mothers who wanted to stay home and look after their
children, against other women, against the handicapped, and against the sick. Is it any
wonder that the Leader of the Opposition is still smarting from the rejection of the Labour
Government's scheme and the obvious success of the national superannuation scheme?


## p. 2000 (#456) ###########################################

2000
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Although members opposite have said that national superannuation would cost too
much, that the Government could not afford it, and that beneficiaries would be worse off,
not one has yet given me an example of a person who is worse off as the result of the
introduction of the scheme. The beneficiaries are better off. A substantial increase in the
weekly allowance will be made on 18 August; another increase will be made on 9 February
next; and in August 1978 the benefit will be increased to 80 percent of the average ordinary-
time weekly wage. Does anyone remember how much the Labour Government thought the
beneficiaries were worth? A miserable 53 percent of the average wage. The National
Government has undertaken to correct any deficiencies that might be found. If members
opposite know of instances where beneficiaries are worse off under national superannuation
they should advise me and the deficiency will be rectified. However, they will probably use
such alleged deficiencies for political purposes. The member for Wigram said that national
superannuation would cost an extra $300 million to $400 million a year, and that because of
the number of people leaving New Zealand and the falling birth rate a greater tax burden
would be placed on a smaller work force. What a lot of nonsense!
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition pointed out that national superannuation would
cost $930 million and said that the scheme was allowing those who did not need the money to
go overseas or to buy a second motorcar. We would not expect the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition to understand the estimates of expenditure. I acknowledge that he was the
Labour Government's Minister of Finance, but we all know what happened to the country's
finances when he held that office. The $930 million referred to in the estimates of
expenditure represents the gross cost of national superannuation, including $600 million
which would have been paid had the age benefit for 60-year-olds and universal superannua-
tion for 65-year-olds still been in existence. Of the remaining $330 million, which is the
additional gross cost of national superannuation, at least $165 million will be recouped in
additional tax from people in receipt of substantial income over and above national
superannuation. Therefore, the net cost of national superannuation, including the provision
for the increases this month and next year-and for all the former age beneficiaries and
universal superannuitants-is $165 million, not $400 million as claimed by members oppo-
site.
I remind members again that in August 1978 national superannuation will be increased
to 80 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage without increasing the rate of
taxation. The explanation does not end there. I should like the member for Wigram to listen
closely. What better than to compare this increased cost with that of the Labour Govern-
ment's superannuation scheme, had it still been in vogue. To survive, the Labour Govern-
ment's scheme required a payroll tax over and above the existing taxation, so today, under
that scheme and with a 2.5 percent payroll tax, every worker would have had a socialist
Minister of Finance taking at least $3.24 a week extra out of his pay packet. In addition,
employers would have been paying a dollar-for-dollar subsidy that could only have added to
the cost of goods. The total additional cost of national superannuation this financial
year-which the Government is able to meet without increasing the rate of taxation-is $167
million; whereas had Labour's scheme continued the cost this year would have been $168
million-which would have been raised by extra taxation.
How can anybody say that people are worse off under national superannuation?
Labour's scheme deliberately discriminated against mothers who wanted to stay home to
look after their children, against women generally, against the sick and the disabled. What is
more it discriminated against the work force, because every worker would have paid extra
tax. In 1973, under Labour, a male breadwinner earning the average weekly wage, including
overtime, paid 19.8 percent of his wages in tax. But after 3 years under Labour that wage
earner paid 21.2 percent in tax. The figures for April this year-the latest available-show
that the taxation rate is down to 16.4 percent. Clearly, people are better off under national
superannuation. If national superannuation had not been introduced a married couple
eligible for the age benefit would have received, as at 18 August 1977, $68.84 a week. Under
national superannuation they will receive $72.24. A married couple with a non-qualified
spouse on the age benefit would have received $68.84, but under national superannuation
will receive $69.75. A single person would have received $41.30, as compared with $42.58. I
cannot emphasise it enough to make the Labour Opposition understand that that is 70
percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage compared with 53 percent paid under
Labour; and it will go up to 80 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage on 31
August next year.
Labour speakers claim that people over 60 who have other income should not be


## p. 2001 (#457) ###########################################

9 August
2001
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
entitled to national superannuation. When the age benefit was in force the average bloke
who was 60 years of age would compare what he was getting in wages with what he would get
from the benefit, and he would take the age benefit. But if he went out and earned any more
the Labour Government knocked it off the benefit. Look at what happens today to those
sitting on the Labour benches who are over 60. Their parliamentary income plus national
superannuation of $82.72 per week gross gives them a total weekly income of $350, but out
of that they pay a minimum of $141 a week in tax. They meet the full cost of their own
superannuation and pay another $60 towards the cost of someone else's. If those same
Labour members are not here after the next election no doubt somebody else will be paying
that extra tax to assist them. Why did the Leader of the Opposition not tell us that instead of
claiming that people over 60 who get national superannuation and have other incomes are
given an unfair advantage? I have found it better to give the facts, irrespective of whether it
hurts. Labour members would not lose any ground if they were prepared to admit the simple
fact that National's superannuation scheme is a success.
The member for Wigram claimed that any beneficiary with $10 a week extra income
would be worse off. That is absolute nonsense. No one can be worse off on a cash-in-hand
basis where primary tax is deducted from each income separately. The deduction of
secondary tax is purely a matter of choice for each superannuitant. It is only when Labour
members start to assess terminal tax liability, not due for another 12 months, that distortions
result. Whether or not a beneficiary is worse off cannot be determined until the tax
assessments are issued for the year ended 31 March 1978—that is, after the first financial
year of the scheme's operation. By that time an individual's income position could well have
changed. There could be a different liability because of 101 different
circumstances because of different exemptions and different rebates; because of exemp-
tions for insurance premiums and donations to charitable institutions, and so on. If a
superannuitant is faced with a terminal tax bill the account does not have to be settled until
the February following the end of the financial year. By that time the superannuation will
have increased to 80 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage, and three additional
increases will have been made in line with wage adjustments. Where is the validity in the
claims made by the Leader of the Opposition and the Labour spokesman on social welfare
about people being worse off? Today, people receive 70 percent of the average ordinary-
time weekly wage, compared with only 53 percent under Labour. In August of next year
they will receive 80 percent. There is absolutely no validity in the claim of Labour Party
members that anyone is worse off.
The Leader of the Opposition spoke in emotive terms of extraordinarily high tax yields
and the extra tax burden laid on wage earners. Why did the Leader of the Opposition not
confirm that the tax burden was higher under the former Labour Government than it is
today under National? I quote one or two figures to demonstrate the position, and I invite
'any Opposition member who thinks he can to show that the figures I shall give are wrong.
The proportion of central government expenditure financed from taxation receipts is the
same today as it was under the previous National Government, but it took a great leap
upwards during the term of the former Labour Government. The figures have been taken
from the No. 1 report of the Controller and Auditor-General. In 1973 the proportion of
Government expenditure to taxation was 77 percent. In 1974, under Labour, it increased to
82 percent. In 1975 it was 80 percent but today it is down to 77 percent. Those figures do not
take into account the single-income family and young family rebates. Taxwise, workers are
clearly better off today than they were under the Labour Government.
The member for Avon talked of deliberate cuts in the domestic purposes benefit, and
claimed that children would suffer as a result. That statement is just another blatant example
of Labour's deliberate policy of promoting fear. The policy of Opposition members is
"Don't worry about the kids or the genuine solo mothers who are doing their best to bring up
their children in difficult circumstances, but use the kids for political purposes." That is the
Labour Party's policy. My advice to the member for Avon is to read the report of the
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee. I would not accuse the member for Avon of
deliberately distorting the facts, but if she read the report of the Domestic Purposes Benefit
Review Committee only once I am sure she would not continue to make such outrageous,
incorrect, and misleading statements about the domestic purposes benefit. I am sure she was
referring to de facto relationships. Where a man and a woman have so merged their lives that
it is reasonable to treat them no better and no worse than a legally married couple then, for
social security benefit purposes, they are regarded as husband and wife, but it would be
wrong to place a couple living in a de facto relationship in a better financial situation than a
15 Vol. 412


## p. 2002 (#458) ###########################################

2002
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
legally married couple by giving the domestic purposes benefit to one party as a solo mother.
I shall have to omit part of what I had intended to say.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Turn to the next page.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: If the honourable member cares to move that my time be
extended I shall be happy to give him more interesting material, although it might not
entirely suit his purposes. However, I shall point out that one of the interesting features of
the debate so far has been the short-term options offered by members of the Labour
Opposition as alternatives to the present Government policy-attractive alternatives
perhaps, such as subsidies, lower interest rates, price controls, and so on--but those options
are not hard to see through. They are being offered to divert attention from unsuccessful
politicians looking for a seat, and in an endeavour to gain a political advantage with an eye to
the next election. I am sure that is how everyone sees the short-term options offered by
members of the democratic socialist Labour Party. We have only to look at the 1973 and
1976 Budget statements to see the disaster the country faced as a result of the three short
years of Labour Administration.
Despite the difficult times the country has been going through-some due no doubt to
overseas considerations over which we have no control, a lot of it due to 3 years of Labour
Government, and some perhaps due to the National Government's not having taken severe
enough actions to correct the situation-in the Budget the Government has been able to
provide greater assistance to many people, particularly in the welfare field. We still have
difficult times to face, but it is good to see in the Budget and the statements attached to it
that we are at least moving in the right direction; the country is being brought out of the
difficulties inherited from the former Labour Government. I again invite Opposition
members to refute the facts I have given, which show clearly that everybody is better off
taxwise than they were under the former Labour Government. I also invite them to refute
that national superannuation, which is being paid without increasing the rates of taxation, is
not costing as much as the Labour Government's scheme would have cost if it had been
operating now. I believe that the Budget is a good one, and that the Prime Minister and his
deputy are doing a tremendous job.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui): The Minister of Social Welfare commenced his contribu-
tion to the debate by making some comments about what he regarded as problems that have
been revealed by the democratic system under which the Labour Party operates. I was
interested to learn this morning that the Minister of Defence has set an example for his
Cabinet colleagues to follow. Many other overstayers on the other side of the House might
just as well recognise that the writing is on the wall and announce that they too intend to
move on to national superannuation. The Minister of Social Welfare should realise that if he
does not take the hint from the Minister of Defence the voters in the Papanui electorate have
a strong message they intend to give him at the end of next year. However, I have no doubt
he is well aware of that. I have one or two other comments to make to the Minister, and after
the remarkable performance we have just had from him perhaps this is the appropriate time
to make them.
The Minister of Social Welfare is the major culprit connected with the document that
purports to pass as a Budget this year. Alongside his portfolio rests the item of $930 million
for national superannuation, the largest single item affecting New Zealand's economy today.
The Minister conceded that it is $330 million more than would have been paid under the age
benefit. Of course, if the Minister continues to say that no one is worse off under national
superannuation the natural inference to take is that national superannuation is more
expensive than the previous benefit-and the estimates are ample proof of that. That single,
short-sighted, politically motivated move has done more damage to the economy than any
other of the many short-sighted actions taken by the National Government. The Minister
spoke at some length about the so-called virtues of national superannuation. I remind him,
as my colleague the member for Wigram has done on many occasions, of the great anxiety
throughout the country over his national superannuation scheme. I remind him too, because
it was apparent that he forgot it when making his speech, that on a number of occasions
members on this side of the House, and particularly the member for Wigram, have given
illustrations of people who are worse off under the national superannuation scheme.
However, the Minister has persistently backed off and refused to admit it.
I receive more correspondence on this subject than I do on any other, and I imagine that
every other member has the same experience. Constituents in all electorates are very
concerned about the cost of national superannuation. Others who inquire about national
superannuation are those who find, for instance, that when their spouse is under 60 they are


## p. 2003 (#459) ###########################################

9 August
2003
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
still subject to a means test, after all; and some of them have lost their telephone concession
and television licence rebate. A lady came to see me the other day with the item "rail
concession scratched off her little voucher card. That is one benefit she was entitled to
before, but does not enjoy now.
Hon. H. J. Walker: Have you referred the matter to the department to find out the
position?
Mr MARSHALL: Yes, I have. I remind the Minister, in case he missed it before, that
the member for Wigram has raised a number of issues with him but the Minister has
persistently backed away from them. The people now realise that they were taken in not only
by the 1975 election campaign but also by some of the material the Government has issued
since. Many old people now realise that they were taken for a ride, and they are alarmed by
the fact that they are no better off now than they were before. Indeed in some cases they are
worse off. If the Minister is still here after the 1978 general election-and I have doubts
about it he will be on this side of the House. His portfolio alone will have been
instrumental, more than any other issue, in ensuring that his party is returned to the
Opposition benches. During question time recently, when the Minister was not in the
House, one of his colleagues answered a question I asked about social workers who were
asked to interrogate patients after 6 months in hospital, with a view to further reducing their
benefit. I know that social workers are concerned about this.
Hon. H. J. Walker: That is not true, as the honourable member should know.
Mr MARSHALL: I shall be happy to pass on to the Minister correspondence received
from the Wanganui Hospital Board and the Wanganui social workers. If these problems
have not filtered through to the Minister I am surprised, but perhaps they went straight
through and he did not see them going by. If he reads tonight's Evening Post he will see on
the editorial page the headline, "Just how long can New Zealand afford the huge super
handout?" The Minister has not a clue about social welfare in its broadest context, as his
performance over the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee report and his attitude
to social workers exemplify. The other day I asked him about the 20 percent of his social
workers who have resigned in the last 18 months.
Hon. H. J. Walker: What was the figure under the Labour Government?
Mr MARSHALL: I shall come back to that. The Minister tried to make out that figures
for the Labour Government and the National Government were comparable, but I was able
to remind him that for the National Government he had taken a period only half as long as
for the Labour Government. We should view with concern any department that has a 20
percent staff turnover in 18 months, but the Minister said only that there was no fall in
morale among social workers and that he had had no representations from them. Well, I do
not know where he has been. What price the Cabinet committee on family affairs when the
consumer price index rose last quarter by 4.8 percent? Has the Minister made representa-
tions to the Minister of Finance about the plight of families with young children feeling the
burden of their increased cost of living? Does he have any difficulty about budgetary
advisory services having an increased workload? Many people are viewing with great
concern the performance of this particular Minister.
Before I move off the subject of social welfare I remind him of what he said about the
Labour Government's superannuation scheme. My goodness, the country-and especially
young people who want to buy their own homes-could do with some of that money today.
The problem is not so much the rise in house prices over the last 3 years but the finance
required to buy a house. If the Labour Government's superannuation scheme had been
working today, much more money would have been available for many of these young
couples to buy their own homes. Today, too many thousands know only too well that they
cannot easily get the money without taking on second and third mortgages at high interest
rates.
The housing field demonstrates a desperate need for the kind of superannuation scheme
the Labour Government introduced. How many local bodies would be grateful for the kind
of financial assistance the Labour Government was beginning to provide under its superan-
nuation scheme? I bet any number of city councils would give their right arms for money at
the kind of price we were able to offer, but that source of money has dried up. Finance would
have been available for industrial development. Given the pious remarks of the Govern-
ment, and especially the Minister of Finance, on that sort of development we could most
certainly do with some money for industrial development today.
The 1977 Budget is a monument to the financial incompetence of the National
Government and its Minister of Finance. Many people know various areas of incompetence
15.


## p. 2004 (#460) ###########################################

2004
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
by this Government, but it took the 1977 Budget to reveal to all and sundry that probably the
most incompetent Minister of all-although there is hot competition from the Minister of
Social Welfare-is the present Minister of Finance. The Government believed that in him
they had strength. In 1973, in referring to financial measures taken by the Labour
Government, he said that one of our Ministers was a person of strong words and weak
actions. Well, that is about the best description I can find of the National Government's
financial policy, from the words of its own Minister of Finance. We have heard strong,
brave and sometimes abrasive-talk up until now, but the Government has produced no
new economic policy. It has fired all the shots in its locker and is unable to come to terms
with those problems it was so sure-and convinced 39 percent of the people, too—it would
solve on its election to office.
This oft-quoted intention of reducing the inflation rate to a single figure is gradually
receding. It was not possible in the first year and we are now told that it may not be possible
during the Government's first term. Members opposite were not saying that 3 years ago. At
great length the Labour Government was told that it was borrowing more than the country
could afford. During its 3-year term the average was $63.4 million a month. What is the
National Government's performance in borrowing? [Interruption.] It has averaged $77.7
million a month-for the benefit of the rabble over at the back, most of whom will not be
here after the end of next year. They do not worry too much about some of the matters for
which the Prime Minister makes excuses now. They excuse industrial borrowing and
repayment of past debts, but there were no such scruples before, and all borrowing was
lumped together. The present Government says, "Oh you have to leave that bit out, a little
bit more out here, and a little bit more out elsewhere." It would appear that the rules have
changed, but the fact remains that the present Government will have borrowed more in 2
years than the Labour Government did in 3 years. The Government is inept in its borrowing
policy and is not able to fulfil its aspirations and promises.
What did the National Opposition say about the Labour Government's performance in
importing? We reduced imports in 1975, but what has been the reduction in imports since the
change of Government, apart from that pitiful import deposit scheme?
Mr Birch: Who reduced imports?
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: We reduced imports by 28 percent in 1975.
Mr MARSHALL: Thank you. It surprises me that the chairman of the Public Expendi-
ture Committee is apparently unaware of that. In 1975, one of the present Prime Minister's
standard jokes was about typewriters and bananas. Well, we know who went bananas. We
checked up on the figures recently and found that typewriters and calculators come within
the same category, and that last year showed a 25 percent increase on the previous year.
With the Government pushing up the inflation rate it is no wonder we needed more
calculators. It seems strange that he should criticise the Labour Government for importing
typewriters one year, and then import so many calculators-as I said, in the same
category-in the following year. The National Government has failed to fulfil its promises
about imports. The disturbing fact about the present economic situation, apart from the
effect of national superannuation, is that the present Government has been in office during a
time of record export receipts.
This Government is living in a fool's paradise. If it cannot control the economy with
record export prices then God help the country next year if export prices fall. I suppose it is
significant that the Minister of Internal Affairs has suggested that the national anthem
should be changed from "God Save the Queen" to "God Defend New Zealand". It is an
appropriate time to do that, because as export prices start to fall-with the Government's
incompetence in the economic field-the country will be in direr straits than it has been. We
now know that when the Prime Minister talks about belt tightening he means that only a
handful of people are worth helping. The great majority of people on the lower and middle
incomes are the ones whose belts will need to be tightened most severely. We were told that
the Government would bring the inflation rate down to a single figure. Well, it got it down
from 15.7 percent in 1975 to 15.6 percent last year. At that rate of progress it will be a 57-
year programme.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: It was better than you could do.
Mr MARSHALL: I remind the member that a very substantial proportion of that
inflation was imported and the Labour Government had very little control over that. Two-
thirds of last year's inflation was generated internally by the member's own Government.
The degree of economic movement possible was not taken up by the National Government,
and therefore the increase in inflation was generated. The figures are there. If the member


## p. 2005 (#461) ###########################################

9 August
2005
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
does not believe me he can check for himself. Last year 10 of those 15 percentage points
were generated by his own Government: that is a much higher rate than the Labour
Government was responsible for. Also, we have these massive tax takes. The Government
has made a great deal about the dollar it is giving away in the young-family rebate and the
single-income rebate, but for every dollar it gives away it is collecting another $9 in revenue.
The increased revenue from income tax this year is expected to be $742 million. The total
extra taxation to be collected will be $911 million. The Government does not have a financial
policy, and next year's election will prove that the electorate recognises that fact.
I mentioned before that the Government claims to be concerned about industrial
development and export promotion, so I was interested to look at the estimates to see what it
had done last year. I found that money which had been voted had not even been spent. Last
year $5.37 million was voted for regional development, but the Government spent only $3.75
million. For industrial development $4.2 million was voted, and the amount was underspent
by $500,000. Last year $21.7 million was voted for programme IV under the Trade and
Industry vote relating to overseas trade. That amount was underspent by $4 million.
Throughout the industrial development sector last year the Government could not even
come up to its own modest aspirations; it underspent the vote. How can we take seriously the
Government's intention to export more, to diversify markets, and to increase productivity,
when it could not even reach the goal it set itself last year?
I have a particular responsibility in Opposition to follow the fortunes of education in this
country. I say to the Minister of Education that, given the weaknesses of the Government's
economic management in general and its inability to control inflation, the education segment
of the Budget is better than some people might have expected. The early-childhood
education programme shows moves towards the kind of flexibility that is needed. The
traditional kindergarten and play centre solutions are no longer enough to gather everybody
in, and this year's Budget proposes a number of tentative and welcome initiatives. There are
a number of queries we will be raising with the Minister more comprehensively during the
discussion on the estimates, but I should like to mention briefly some points. The Govern-
ment will have its work cut out to make early-childhood education generally available by
1980. If it does achieve that, then more strength to its arm.
I am not sure that the provisions in this year's Budget to take education through to 1978
will go far enough. It is not yet a sufficiently visible and coherent approach. Provision is
made in the Budget for 18 community pre-school workers. I notice that three are already
working in Otara. We need to beware of using those people primarily as cheap labour. The
persons employed are on teacher-aid salaries and there is at least a suspicion that the job is
being done on the cheap when we already have skilled, trained people available who would
like to do that work. Incidentally, some reassurance is needed for graduate teachers,
especially in the pre-school sector, about securing positions. Some concern has been
expressed by kindergarten trainees, and going on last year's experience the training will not
of itself guarantee them a position. There are openings and there is room for a more flexible
approach for those people to be employed. They deserve an assurance similar to that given
to community pre-school workers so that they know there is a way in which they might be
gathered into the system.
Provision is made to train kindergarten teachers to staff pre-school mobile units. That is
a fine idea, which the Opposition supports. The Opposition is concerned about the cost of
the vehicles or a subsidy towards the cost. At present the vehicles are paid for by the
voluntary agencies, and it is not enough for the Government to pay for the staff. Some
assistance should be given towards the vehicles. It will be interesting to see whether those
measures succeed because of the Government's aim to extend early-childhood education to a
further 8000 children. The Budget mentioned that many of the children live in remote areas,
but the Minister will be aware that the biggest challenge in the minds of many people is not
so much in the more remote areas but in the provision of imaginative programmes for many
thousands of people in urban areas who have not yet found a way to pre-school education.
There is ample evidence that even if there is a pre-school activity going on in middle-income
areas the people next door will not necessarily know about it or how to use it. There is much
pressure on the Government for imaginative solutions to meet the needs of the thousands of
pre-school children in urban areas as well as those in remote areas.
There are developments in tertiary education, but I am somewhat concerned at the
reduction of roughly $4 million-from the $15.2 million spent last year to $11.5 million for
this year-in the building programme for technical institutes and community colleges. While
I share the belief that the solutions to some of the problems do not entirely or even primarily


## p. 2006 (#462) ###########################################

2006
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
lie in buildings, this reduction of almost $4 million at least gives food for thought and some
grounds for concern. I welcome the authorisation for further community colleges. This is yet
another illustration of the Government's carrying on things initiated by the Labour Govern-
ment. At Whangarei and Rotorua these colleges were already part way through the door,
and there will be a great measure of relief that what was partly under way is now legitimate.
For the benefit of the member who is trying to interject, his Government was a bit tardy in
getting some of these things done, but of course when one is in a marginal seat one can
understand how things get into the Budget.
I was pleased to see that Southland, which has another marginal seat, is to get a
community college. There is a programme for the translation of a technical institute into a
community college. I gather it has one of the most exciting ranges of community program-
mes in the country. As with early-childhood education, there will be major growth in
continuing education. We look forward to a further commitment by the Government for the
establishment of more than three community colleges. Some members on this side of the
House-the member for Timaru, the member for Porirua, and the member for Wanganui-
are hopeful that community colleges will be established in their areas. I would not for a
moment suggest that there is any kind of political favouritism but, in case anybody else
suggests it first, it would be helpful if the Minister would give some early indication of further
developments.
An increasing amount of interest is being shown in a wider range of educational
opportunities for adults, and the Opposition would have liked to see more emphasis on that.
The removal of anomalies in the standard tertiary bursary is welcomed by Opposition
members. Before the 1975 election the Labour Party knew that although the major work
required to bring about the standard tertiary bursary had been completed some problems
would need to be ironed out, and in Government it realised that some aspects would need
early attention. That attention has been a long time in coming and it will be 2 years before
some of the deficiencies are remedied. The major work was done in 1975, and the student
bodies recognised that. They also recognised that some students were taken in by the
material used against the Labour Government, but most realised the sincerity of its moves.
Many people are sad that negotiations on the student price index that were under way at the
change of Government have fallen aside and that there has been considerable delay in
making any effort to keep the bursary-
Mr Comber: It was a shambles from the beginning.
Mr MARSHALL: If it was a shambles from the beginning why is the so-called
"reformed bursary" really the standard tertiary bursary with one or two minor refinements?
The member for Wellington Central would not be very popular if he went to Victoria
University and repeated what he has just said, but I am sure many students in his electorate
would be interested in his opinion. The level of the present bursary was set in the 1975
Budget; there has been about 30 percent inflation on the student price index-
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Paid in 1976.
Mr MARSHALL: The level was announced in the 1975 Budget and it was paid for the
first time in 1976. The new level will not be paid until the beginning of 1978. In the meantime
inflation has risen by 30 percent.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: It has been increased by 86 percent in 2 years.
Mr MARSHALL: If the Minister thinks the students are satisfied he should attend one
or two protest meetings.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: The member knows there has been an 86 percent increase in 2
years.
Mr MARSHALL: I suppose if you start with very little an 86 percent increase might
sound a lot. The record of the Labour Government is a great deal better than that of the
Minister. If the Minister of Social Welfare had not spent so much money on national
superannuation perhaps a bit more could have been given to the students. The Opposition is
worried that if the present position continues there might be a return to the bad old days
when one's ability to attend university depended on the financial position of one's family.
Many people find the cost of university too high. When I was at Otago University last week
the president of the students' association told me that 20 percent of last year's first-year
students did not come back this year. Part-time and holiday work is becoming harder to find,
especially with factories closing down.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Why didn't you consult the vice-chancellor and get the real facts?
Mr MARSHALL: I had a meeting with the vice-chancellor and he was very happy to see
me. I also had a meeting with the president of the students' association. Fees for student


## p. 2007 (#463) ###########################################

9 August
2007
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement.
hostels at Otago University will increase to $38 a week next year. I ask the Minister how
much help $2 a week will be.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: How many empty beds are there?
Mr MARSHALL: I imagine there will be a great many empty beds at that sort of rate.
We are fast approaching the time when many people will not be able to afford to start or
continue a working life at university. Given the concern that we all feel about the gap
between the haves and have-nots in our society, the paucity of the assistance for university
students causes very real concern.
I should like now to mention regional development. The Government has reinstated
some of the programmes that were cut, and indeed has returned to what the Labour
Government was doing. There is a need for an overall approach to regional development
and for the Government to look at each region separately to find out what is needed, so that
each region can play its full part in the country's development. I have a very real fear, which
I believe is shared by many people, that the regions and the provincial cities are being left
behind and asked to bear more than their fair share of belt tightening. I make a plea to the
Government to take rather more seriously than it has in the last 18 months the plight of those
provincial cities, because many people feel, and I think justifiably, that since the election
they have been forgotten.
Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth): It was interesting to hear the member for
Wanganui compliment the Minister of Education. It was also interesting to note that the
member for Wanganui tried to claim credit for the Labour Government for what the
Minister of Education has done. I suppose there is no greater compliment than that. I thank
the member for Wanganui for realising that the Education portfolio is being well managed
under the leadership of the present Minister of Education.
It was a shame that the member for Wanganui started his speech with a bitter personal
attack on the Minister of Social Welfare. He was critical of national superannuation, but he
did not mention that in 1975 a superannuitant received about 54 percent of the average
ordinary-time weekly wage while under the national superannuation scheme the figure is
now 70 percent, rising to 80 percent next year. The Opposition is not sure whether the
Government is spending too much or not enough on the pensioners. So it is trying to have it
both ways.
After listening to the Opposition's criticism it is obvious that it would abolish the
present scheme and return to its very unpopular scheme that would have meant the
imposition of an extra 2.5 percent tax on employers and employees this year, rising to 4
percent. I am sure that beneficiaries do not want to see a return to the means test, and I am
sure they will not see that, because a Labour Government will never be elected.
It is apparent from the Opposition's approach to this debate that it has thrown in the
towel. Opposition members have shown no enthusiasm and their speeches have been
shallow and superficial. The speech made by the Leader of the Opposition in opening the
debate has been described as lullaby; it certainly sent four of his colleagues to sleep. Perhaps
they decided that being asleep was the best way to listen to him. Sleep would have been a
wonderful cure for the yawning of other Opposition members who were lying there listening.
Speeches followed from a very dispirited pack of disciples, yet this group calls itself the
alternative Government. It is like an orchestra without a conductor. Everybody chimes in at
different levels. First there is the piccolo, then a great thundering of drums over the top of it
and the whole thing is lost.
Opposition members call themselves democratic socialists. The member for Wanganui
talked about the democratic basis of the socialist party. It was well demonstrated over the
weekend that a person can be democratic in the Labour Party provided he agrees with the
headquarters. I ask the people who stood for selection in Auckland how democratic the
Labour Party is when the local organisation wants one candidate but he is blocked by the
headquarters. Is that real democracy? I ask the candidates who stood for the Papatoetoe and
Auckland Central electorates that question. I admit the people did not have much choice in
the candidates. The local delegates were ignored; members opposite know that. The Labour
Party does not know the meaning of democracy. The member for Hutt can shout and bellow
and perform as much as he likes, but he knows the Labour Party does not know what
democracy means. The only thing the Labour Party knows how to organise is a demonstra-
tion outside its opponent's conference. The Labour Party cannot organise itself and does not
know what is going on.
The member for Heretaunga and the member for Timaru made some interesting
statements in their speeches. The member for Heretaunga asked whether Transport Nelson


## p. 2008 (#464) ###########################################

2008
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Ltd was to take over the Railways Road Services in Taranaki. That question was supported
by the member for Timaru. They implied that the decision to stop the Blue Streak was an
attempt by the Government to hand over passenger transport to private enterprise. I wonder
why the members made that ridiculous suggestion, which has no substance. In an article in
the Taranaki Herald last Friday they tried to tie the extension of road transport limits into
the decision to stop the railcar. They suggested that the extended limit was part of an overall
plot for private enterprise to take over transport.
Mr T. J. Young: That's right.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: The member for Hutt should stop and think about it. The road
transport limits have never had anything to do with passenger transport, but the Labour
spokesman on transport has implied that the change is part of a great transport plot in
Taranaki. Some rather bogus documents have been introduced. In an article in the Taranaki
Herald on 5 August the member Timaru said, "A number of road services documents and
accounts bearing a Transport Nelson letterhead have already been received by users of
the bus service." What Opposition members do not realise is that the charges for goods sent
by the road services are prepaid and accounts are not sent out. In the same newspaper the
Assistant General Manager of Railways, Mr Thompson, said, "As road services parcels are
all prepaid I cannot see how any road services accounts documents would be sent bearing
Transport Nelson letterheads. I am not aware of this happening." The Labour Party has
dreamt up that bogus document. It asked the research unit to come forward with something
that would scare the people of Taranaki. I challenge the member for Timaru and the
member for Heretaunga, or any other Opposition speaker, to produce and table that
document. Members from Taranaki will be interested in seeing it.
The documents do not exist, but have been introduced to scare the people of Taranaki.
The people will not appreciate the rather silly political games that the Opposition is playing.
Mr T. J. Young: That is why Transport Nelson is taking over a considerable amount of
road transport in Taranaki.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: The member for Hutt is making whimpering noises about road
transport. All of the guesses so far are wrong and have been shown to be wrong. The
statements made by the member for Timaru do not bear very close scrutiny. I wonder what
tempted the members to make those remarks. Is this a political stunt? The member for
Timaru and the member for Heretaunga allegedly know something about transport, because
they endeavoured to manage those portfolios when the Labour Government was in office.
They will not get the opportunity again, but are trying to make some sort of capital out of
their statements.
I should now like to speak about the Blue Streak and the problem of passenger transport
in Taranaki. Ever since it was announced in March 1976 that the Blue Streak would be taken
off I have endeavoured through discussions with the Minister of Railways to find an
alternative to the proposed bus services. I have been assisted by the member for Palmerston
North, the Minister of Lands, and the Minister of Justice. The member for Wanganui has
also made two brief visits to the Minister's office to discuss this problem.
Mr T. J. Young: What a mess resulted for the Minister.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: The mess resulted from the representations made by the member
for Wanganui. The member for Wanganui has already spoken so I ask the next Labour
speaker why those representations were not made in 1973, 1974, and 1975. Members
opposite knew that a decision about the Blue Streak railcar would have to be made, but they
did nothing about it then. Perhaps the member for Wanganui could tell the member for Hutt
why he did not approach the member for Heretaunga, who was the Minister of Railways
between 1972 and 1975, to ensure the retention of a passenger service. The people of
Wanganui would like to know that, and the people of New Plymouth will ask the next
Labour candidate that question. Would the member for Hutt, who is making so much noise,
like to stand for the New Plymouth electorate? The Labour Party is bound to bring in an
outsider, because no local person will stand.
Why did the member for Hutt not ask the member for Heretaunga about the urban
transport problem? He did not do that during the term of the Labour Government. He is
interested in talking about the problems that have eventuated because of the lack of action
by the Labour Government. A decision about passenger transport in Taranaki needed to be
made back in 1974, but no decision was made by the Labour Government.
The Minister of Labour, a former Minister of Transport, can say what happened in the
time leading up to the Labour Government's taking office. In October 1971 the National
Government Cabinet approved in principle the purchase of 14 railcars at an estimated cost of


## p. 2009 (#465) ###########################################

9 August
2009
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
$4 million. The Cabinet authorised the calling of tenders. In July 1972 one quote was
received, but that was unsatisfactory. In August 1972 seven replies were received quoting a
price of about $250,000 for each railcar. In November 1972, before the election, the
Assistant General Manager of Railways requested permission from Cabinet to investigate
the possibility of putting train-sets on in place of railcars. In November 1972 the Government
was changed, but before that time the decision to authorise the calling of tenders for railcars
was not rescinded by the National Government.
The Labour Government came into office and had the policy put on its plate. What did
it do about it? In 1973 it was revealed to the Public Expenditure Committee by the General
Manager of Railways that the relevant documents had been given to the Labour Minister of
Railways, but the facts show that he did nothing about them. No replacements were ordered,
no train-sets were allowed for, and buses were ordered to take the place of the railcars. The
facts show that the Labour Government did nothing, but the member for Timaru and the
member for Heretaunga imply that the problem of the lost rail service is because of the
National Government's decision. They know full well that there is no rail service in Taranaki
now because of the indecision of the Labour Government.
The Opposition has tried to blame us. Is it credible? Are its claims credible? In
Government it did not order any railcars. It made no provision for train-sets. It did not order
suitable locomotives to tow train-sets, yet several times the member for Timaru has said that
the DX locomotives were bought to tow train-sets consisting of two or three carriages.
Would somebody in the Opposition please take the member for Timaru aside and explain to
him that the DX locomotives are of 2750 horsepower. He was going to tow around two or
three carriages with the biggest locomotives in New Zealand. He is one of Labour's
spokesmen on transport, and that is the sort of incredible statement that he and the member
for Heretaunga make. I hope Opposition members will stop their silly arguments and try to
help us get back the rail service in Taranaki. I hope they will stop trying to scare the Taranaki
people and stop talking about silly bogus documents-or else lay the documents on the table.
I do not believe they exist, and neither do the Taranaki people.
Mr T. J. Young: I have seen one in an accountant's office.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: The member for Hutt is yapping again. We are having a lot of
noise from him. He was quiet for a while, but now he is noisy again. I hope he will assist us in
getting back a rail service. I should like to thank the Mayor of New Plymouth and the Mayor
of Inglewood, Mr Sutherland and Mr Crone, for their help in presenting Taranaki's case. I
should also like to thank the committee that was set up by a public meeting held recently in
New Plymouth. It too has helped in the presentation of the case for a return to rail transport
for the region. Individual members of the railwaymen's unions have also assisted, and I
thank them. It is a joint effort and I believe that we shall get results in the long run. We are
waiting for the departmental investigation into the availability of equipment for the run. My
only regret is that the member for Wanganui and the previous member for New Plymouth
did nothing between 1972 and 1975; they have a lot to answer for.
Having listened to Opposition speakers in the debate I believe it is necessary to reiterate
one simple sentence-that New Zealand depends on export income. That fact, which is
learnt by school children from their first days at school, has been completely ignored by
members opposite. The member for Christchurch Central spoke briefly about extra produc-
tion, but no other Labour speaker has mentioned that vital subject. Opposition members
appear not to be interested in producing more income for the country. The National
Government has acknowledged that New Zealand depends on export income, and the
Budget has taken this into account. The Budget has been described as a production Budget.
It does not ignore our social needs, as Opposition members have tried to tell us, but it
concentrates on the encouragement of export income. It faces up to New Zealand's future
needs, and its effects will be felt for many years to come. It gives export incentives for
manufacturing, it improves guarantees for export-related landing, concessional deprecia-
tion, and so on. There are many measures that will be welcomed by manufacturers
throughout the country and will strengthen employment opportunities.
The Budget will ensure the continuation of measures that increased manufactured
export earnings for the year ended December 1976 by 56 percent. We look forward to
another 12 months of that sort of increase. Tourism has been helped and so has forestry.
Grants have been made for private woodlots. Forestry is a vital industry that depends on
these incentives. In 1976, forestry exports increased by about 59 percent. That is the sort of
increase in production that the Budget sets out to achieve so that we can continue to look
after our social needs. Fishing was dealt with very well by the member for Rangiora, but it


## p. 2010 (#466) ###########################################

2010
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
has been ignored by Labour speakers. Even the alleged spokesman on fishing had little to
say.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Who's he?
Mr FRIEDLANDER: I'm not sure; it has been very difficult to work that out.
Hon. T. F. Gill: It could be the member for Manukau.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: It could be the member for Manukau-he speaks on everything
else. The Budget allows the continuation of duty-free imports of fishing boats. Last year one
boat was brought into New Plymouth, and I know at least one other is in the pipeline. The
Budget provides for the development of Rural Bank loans for gear and equipment, and this
will help our fishermen to get ahead. A fishing vessel ownership savings scheme has been set
up, but the Opposition has ignored it. Members opposite do not seem to be very much
interested in fishing. Perhaps they realise that we have a good story to tell. Why are they so
quiet about fishing? The Budget contains tax incentives for fishermen and increased grants
for the Fishing Industry Board. I understand that the member for Island Bay has a fisherman
or two in his electorate. Surely they appreciate what is in the Budget-which is no thanks to
the member for Island Bay. The people of Island Bay appreciate the importance of the
fishing industry, as do the people of New Plymouth. They appreciate the importance of
encouraging the industry to develop its vast potential. Anyone who comes to New Plymouth
should look towards the horizon in the evening to see the lights.
Mr O'Brien: Yes, Japanese fishing New Zealand waters.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: That is right. One or two other nations are involved too-Russia
is one that the member might be reasonably interested in. It is not important who owns the
boats; my point is that there is a tremendous potential right at our back door and the Labour
Government did nothing to develop it.
Mr Quigley: It ran it down.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: Yes, as the member for Rangiora said, the Labour Government
ran the industry down. We are trying to make sure that the fishermen want to develop the
area. For the year ended last December fishing exports increased by 47 percent. The New
Plymouth fishermen played a large part in that increased production and they want to do
more. The Budget encourages them to further progress. It provides the incentives they want.
The Labour Government had no answer in fishing, and the member for Island Bay knows it.
He knows that less fish was exported in 1975 than in 1972. The only difference is that there
was a Labour Government during that period. The fish were there, but they were not
exported because the fishermen did not get the encouragement to export them. The member
knows full well that fish exports decreased and a freeze was placed on fishermen's incomes.
That is what happened in the term of the Labour Government. No wonder Labour members
look at the Budget's fishing provisions, stand there in bewilderment, and just cannot
understand. We have a vast resource.
Mr O'Brien: Tell us how to help the small fisherman.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: The member wants to know how we can help the small fisherman.
I pointed out earlier that there were Rural Bank loans for boats and equipment. Perhaps he
should sit down and read the Budget instead of listening to his research unit, which has been
leading him astray rather badly. We want to make sure that our fishing resources are
developed. I wonder whether the Opposition really appreciates this. We will develop fishing
in New Zealand as fast as manpower and expertise allow. I hope that when Labour members
come to New Plymouth and look out to the horizon they will see New Zealand fishing boats,
and will not be able to shout across the floor of the House, as the member for Island Bay did
a few moments ago, that the fishing boats are all Japanese. We want to put New Zealand
boats out there on the New Plymouth horizon so that they can join in the harvesting of that
massive resource waiting out there off our shores.
Some Labour members have spoken about taxation. The member for Wanganui made
some remarks about taxation and implied that the nasty Government had pushed up the
total tax bill. He really has not looked at it too closely. Labour members talk about
restructuring the taxation system, but the obvious question is, "Why didn't they do it
between 1972 and 1975?"
Miss Dewe: They did.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: Yes, they put it up. They had plenty of opportunities to try to
reduce people's tax. Remember the new tax scales introduced in 1975? The Labour
Government introduced steeply graduated tax scales, but did not restructure the amount
that was coming from the people-the people that members opposite are weeping for at the
moment, saying, “Look at the tax they are paying "They did not worry about those people


## p. 2011 (#467) ###########################################

9 August
2011
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
in 1975. I wonder what made them start talking about taxation.
Mr McLay: Opportunism.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: Yes, their remarks are based on opportunism. When they were
the Government they did nothing to reduce taxation. In fact, they did a considerable amount
to increase it. We need only look at the increases that took place in Government expendi-
ture. In 1973-74 Government expenditure increased by 18.7 percent under the Labour
Government, and in 1974-75 by 29.5 percent. In 1975-76 the increase was 28.6 percent.
Opposition members and the general public know that these increases are the reason there is
no room to move at the moment to reduce tax any more than has been done in this Budget,
because during Labour's term in office the number of people employed in the public sector
increased by 10 800 and there was a general lack of restraint on Government expenditure,
which increased over that period by 77 percent-in the term of the Labour Government.
That, for the benefit of the member for Mangere, is the reason why there is little room to
reduce taxes nowadays. He should know, because that is what is causing the hardship in his
electorate that he waxed so eloquent about a few moments ago. He was the piccolo player I
referred to.
An Hon. Member: A double bass.
Mr FRIEDLANDER: Someone says "A double bass". I suggest that Opposition
members look closely at the rebates given in the Budget. The young-family rebate gives a $9
a week tax rebate to those with a child under 5; a single-income family with a child under 10
will have a rebate of $4 a week. This means that for this sector of the population taxation has
been reduced by 18 percent since 1975. Despite the fact that wages have increased over that
period by $22.50 for a person on the average wage, those in receipt of the benefits referred to
in the Budget will have their tax reduced by $4.36 a week, a reduction of 7 percent in their
total tax bill. This means that their after-tax income, the cash in hand that they take home to
buy groceries and so on, has been increased by between 8 percent and 12.5 percent,
depending on their tax bracket. This is the sector that the member for Southern Maori was
talking about; asking what the Government had done for people on low incomes who have
young children. That is what the Government has done: reduced their tax. Other taxes will
be reduced when circumstances permit.
Mr CHRISTIE (Napier): The National speakers in this debate have spoken about
everything but what is in the Budget. They are endeavouring to place the blame for their 2
years of maladministration on the Labour Government. The member for New Plymouth said
a lot about the withdrawal of the Blue Streak from the Wellington-New Plymouth service. I
want to read to him part of a speech made by the Minister of Transport to the South Island
Promotion Association in Nelson this year: "The main reason I am getting flak is because of
my failure to make certain decisions. Quite the contrary, I think the main reason I have
come in for a fair bit of criticism is because I am the fellow who stops things. I am the one
who took off the Rangatira, and cut the railcars"-he did not say it, but he could also have
included taking away the Blue Streak—“and closed down branch railway lines. While I have
been Minister, NAC has trimmed provincial services, and the Shipping Corporation stopped
calling at Timaru. I would agree that, on the face of it, all this does not seem to do much for
transport in the South Island, but I make no apology whatever for what has been done so
far." The member for New Plymouth tried to blame the Labour Party for the withdrawal of
the Blue Streak, but the Minister of Transport said, "I am the fellow who stops things. I am
the fellow who did all these things." These members of a bad National Government cannot
get away from the fact that they are to blame for the present situation.
The member for New Plymouth also said—I do not know where he got his information
from, but it is one of these things that Government members pluck out of the air and expect
people to believe-that the Labour Party intended to dismantle the National Government's
superannuation scheme. I wonder where he got that idea from. I advise him to read page 6 of
tonight's Evening Post, and he will find out who will dismantle the present scheme. The
Labour Party will not dismantle the scheme, but the Government will dismantle it, and then
New Zealand will be in hock. That is what is happening. The Government will dismantle the
superannuation scheme, which is top-heavy and cannot be financed in the present circumst-
ances. The National Government knows that the people who are on the means-test benefit
are no better off. Those who are getting it want it least-and a lot of them are sitting over
there, and a couple of them are sitting over here. This Budget could be called a "chickens
come home to roost" Budget.
An Hon. Member: Any roosters?
Mr CHRISTIE: There might be a couple of roosters on that side, I do not know. The


## p. 2012 (#468) ###########################################

2012
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
gap between what appears to be promised in the Budget and what is intended is almost as
wide as the gap between the two 1975 National Party manifestoes. The glossy manifesto,
which cost 75c and was entitled 1975 National Party Manifesto, has since been disowned by
none other than the Prime Minister, whose photo was on the cover. I wonder how long it will
be before the people disown the National Government, which has disowned its glossy
manifesto, the one that contained a number of general and extravagant promises, including
the sporting policy. Eighteen months later, international opinion is forcing the National
Government to admit-as the Deputy Prime Minister has admitted-that the Labour
Government's sporting policy was the correct one. The Prime Minister had to admit on
television that the 75c manifesto was not the Government's only manifesto.
Although the Budget does not have a flattering photograph of the Prime Minister on its
front cover and cost 25c more than the 75c manifesto, there is a marked similarity between
the two documents. It is not known whether the Budget was written by an advertising
agency, but, in view of the parallels between the Budget and the 1975 manifesto, it is not too
fanciful perhaps to suppose that this superficial monetary document was drafted in the
Colenso copy room. We know that the Prime Minister was out of the country when the
Budget was prepared. It took him 14 dreary hours to read, and now members opposite are
trying to justify what was in it, and many of them are making a very poor job. When the
Minister of Transport spoke the other night, the gallery was full, probably of National Party
supporters, who must have gone home very disillusioned about the Government they had
voted into office.
In the glossy manifesto it was promised: "If the rugby union wishes to invite the
Springboks to New Zealand next winter, we will make them welcome." I wonder if members
opposite would repeat that statement if the rugby union issued such an invitation today.
Would they officially welcome a Springbok team to New Zealand now? I think not. After the
glossy promise came cold reality. After the Prime Minister was told off in front of the world
at Gleneagles, that promise had to be broken, even though he will not admit it. The Prime
Minister stated on television that the truth was included in the other manifesto, the one that
not one member of the public saw. If the people had known what was in that manifesto, the
members opposite would be sitting on this side of the House and we would be sitting on the
Government benches.
I shall give a few examples of the real nature of the glossy promises and of the hard
realities. In return for the huge tax grab, the Government appears to be giving a few
concessions to the single-income family. However, if we look carefully at the glossy promise
we find that no benefit will accrue until a tax claim is made in 1978, even though, with
inflation and rising costs, the single-income families could do with that benefit now. The so-
called rates rebate does not even start until next year, so that any benefit will not be gained
until 1979, by which time the Labour Government will be back in office and picking up the
pieces the National Government has scattered around the country in the past 2 years.
Although profit sharing was mentioned on page 21 of the Budget, no indication was
given of how this would be accomplished. One had to turn to the alternative
Budget-otherwise known as the joint press statement from the Minister of Labour and the
Minister of Trade and Industry-to find out a little more about it. From the press statement
we learned that the profit-sharing scheme will involve additional income being paid to the
workers in certain approved export or income-saving industries, and that such payment will
be made out of the profits without affecting consumer prices. A few lines further down we
discovered that, in the assessment of the employer's income, this payment would be treated
as a deductible expense for tax purposes. This means that, after paying his workers their
share of the profit, an employer will receive an additional profit through a tax deduction.
The National Government looks after its friends. With the size of the present tax grab, the
Government is admitting it is short of revenue. As it will limit its tax take from employers,
the rest of the taxpayers will wind up by paying more.
In its manifesto the Government promised worker participation; I commend it for that.
The sooner we have worker participation in industry the sooner we shall do away with
industrial unrest. Although this Government has presented two Budgets, it has made no
mention of worker participation, unless it considers the contradictory statements about
profit sharing as being a step in that direction. The Government steps in a lot of directions,
but not in the one that is best for the people. The worker participation aspect of the
Government's industrial relations and manpower policy is like the rest of that policy-
pathetic and chaotic.
The member for Whangarei lauded the fact that young people were getting their first


## p. 2013 (#469) ###########################################

9 August
2013
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
taste of employment through Government relief schemes. I hope the member will think
more about what he means when he makes such statements. Such a regrettable attitude
underlines why industrial relations have been in such poor shape in the past 18 months under
the present Government. It is regrettable that a young person has to start his productive
working life on charity. Having to do relief work instead of being gainfully employed does
nothing to ensure that young New Zealanders will develop into responsible and mature
members of the work force. I cannot understand why the member for Whangarei should
think that that is praiseworthy, nor why he should say in the same speech that elderly people
were happy with national superannuation. He should know that the only people who are
happy with the present scheme are those who do not really need it, and that many
beneficiaries are discovering they are worse off under the present system, as all their rebates
have been removed.
The Police Department report shows that all is not well. Resignations from the force
were at an all-time high of nearly 5 percent last year. Commissioner Burnside pointed to the
uncertainty about pay increases as a major reason for resignations. The Government has
done little or nothing to help. I hope the pay issue will be resolved soon, but what about the
other matters of concern? A glance at the estimates suggests that the Police Department staff
ceiling has been lowered. It may be that the civilian sector will be cut. Perhaps the Minister
could tell us that, instead of laughing about it. The staff ceiling last year was 5160, and this
year it is 5142. How can the Minister justify that? It looks as if the Government is cutting the
number of police, in spite of the increase of 10 000 in the number of offences committed in
1976, compared to 1975. Is the Minister satisfied with that, and with the fact that he is cutting
the staff ceiling by 18? That must mean a worsening in the ratio of police to public. Under
Labour it was 1:745. I wonder what it is now.
Hon. Allan McCready: You're reading the wrong book.
Mr CHRISTIE: No, I am not. I am giving the Minister the facts. In his report,
Commissioner Burnside said that staffing limitations caused considerable concern, and that
policemen might have to be used on civilian work if cuts were made in the employment of
civilians. This cut-back, cut-out, taxing Government is hitting the police in the same way as it
is hitting every New Zealander, but the police form a very special section of our community
and deserve special care. A survey into stress in the police force is being carried out; that
may bring home to the Government the effect of its policies on the men who are doing a hard
job. But if the Minister took the time to talk to the men on the job, they would tell him the
reasons for the stress. They are very similar to the reasons many young people are under
stress at the moment-unemployment, the housing shortage, and the soaring cost of living.
Mr Moodie, the Secretary of the Police Association, said that one of the causes of the stress
was understaffing. No wonder, when the Budget cut the staff ceiling by 18. What does the
Government intend to do? It has not even kept the staff ceiling at the existing level, but has
cut it back.
The Government is not looking after the police as it should. The present Minister
cannot hold a candle to the previous Minister of Police, who was recognised by the police as
being the best Minister they had ever had. Mr Moodie also said that unless people were paid
well they would not join the force, and that one of the worst results of the resignations,
which are now running at a record level, is the demoralising effect on other staff. The
Government cannot increase the staff ceiling, because it is struggling to finance an amazingly
expensive superannuation scheme costing $1,000 million this year-$300 million for those
who do not need it. The scheme takes money out of the pockets of those who need it, and
gives it to people who do not need it, such as Cabinet Ministers, retired lawyers, doctors, and
dentists. They are people who have spent most of their lives at the top of the money tree.
Mr McLay: They're paying a lot of tax on it, though.
Mr CHRISTIE: That is right, but they keep at least half of it. We do not want a
demoralised police force, and we did not have one under the Labour Government. The
police deserve all the support we can give them, and they will get it from a Labour
Government. Financial rewards, working conditions, and opportunities for promotion must
be adequate.
Last week the Associate Minister of Finance said that in New Zealand the right to pay
tax was a proud one. New Zealanders are paying record tax this year. People in my
electorate are not feeling proud at the moment. They are not proud of the Government, and
they are finding it difficult to survive in New Zealand the way the Tories want it. The
building industry is in chaos. The Building Industry Advisory Council, in a report made
public in April last year, warned the Government that 10 000 people in the industry would be


## p. 2014 (#470) ###########################################

2014
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
unemployed within 12 months unless decisive action was taken. We know that those 10 000
people are not unemployed in New Zealand, but have left the country-as people did in
1968, when the present Prime Minister was Minister of Finance, as he is now.
Housing Corporation lending has been cut back by $90 million. There were 4000 fewer
loans in 1975-76. Low-income supplementary loans were cut by 50 percent. Family benefit
capitalisations were cut by two-thirds. Loan limits were frozen at $14,000, at a time when
building costs continued to rise. At the present rate, costs will rise by 27 percent this year.
They rose by an average of $3,000 per house in the first 6 months of 1977. Mortgage interest
rates have been pushed to the highest level ever in our history; in the National Government's
Budget last year the interest rates on Housing Corporation loans were raised 5.5 percent to
7.5 percent, and in this Budget they have been forced up to 8.5 percent. No wonder young
people cannot afford to own their own homes, and no wonder more than 10 000 people have
left New Zealand. No wonder the building industry and allied trades are laying down tools
and closing down, as they are in my electorate.
Twelve months after the National Government came into office, it was warned by the
Building Industry Advisory Council about the consequences of its policy. All those warnings
have come true. Forward work loads are critically low and, if immediate assistance is not
provided, as many as half of the staff employed in the building industry in Auckland will be
out of work. I emphasise that immediate corrective measures are necessary. The same
situation exists in almost every other city, town, and village in New Zealand. The building
industry is winding down, to the detriment not only of the industry itself but of all associated
industries and allied trades. Already, more than 6000 skilled tradesmen have left New
Zealand; I expect the total number of those who are leaving the industry and the country will
reach 10 000.
Employees in the building industry and in other industries know that under the National
Government they will receive no help. I can only hope that many will return in 1978 when
the Labour Party again assumes office. There is so little confidence in the industry that new
apprentices are not being employed, and in the last 2 years, because industry employees
could see no future, the rate of loss of those employed has been 30 percent. To give an
indication of the position, the Homedale Building Co. of Wellington has $1 million worth of
unsold homes on its books, because people cannot obtain finance to buy them.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: That's normal.
Mr CHRISTIE: The Minister of Housing appears to be becoming interested; someone
must have told him he should take an interest in the building industry. In June, four medium-
sized companies were wound up in Wellington alone. Does the Minister deny that? In
Nelson, five small companies have closed so far this year. Only recently I received a
deputation from the building industry in my home, and was told about the desperate
situation it is in. However, the Minister of Housing sits complacently in his seat, and the
Prime Minister recently commented that, because so many people were leaving New
Zealand, it was not necessary to build more homes. That is the prime statement this year. I
emphasise that our Prime Minister said that, because we have an emigration problem-not
an immigration but an emigration problem—and so many people were leaving New Zealand,
it was not necessary to build more homes.
The Minister of Housing then appeared on television and said, "The hard realities are
that the people will have to take it." I say the hard realities are that thousands of building
industry employees are out of work, thousands of people are occupying substandard homes,
young people cannot obtain loans to finance the purchase of a home, and, when and if
finance is available, the interest rates range from 12 percent to 22 percent as a result of the
Government's actions. The Government itself raised interest rates last year, and of course all
its friends immediately followed suit. A Napier widow recently received a letter from a
savings bank advising that, as it was now permitted to increase the rate of interest on the
mortgage on her home, it was raising the interest rate by 2 percent from that day.
I reiterate that, when the Government increased mortgage interest rates, private
enterprise immediately followed. I am thinking of fellows like Bob Jones, who also appeared
in a television programme the other night. I was interested-as I am sure were all New
Zealanders who voted for the National Government in 1975 and who cannot obtain a home
or finance for one-to hear him say that we do not need any more homes in New Zealand.
Of course, he is a property speculator and wants the people to queue up for the few homes
he has, so that he can charge exorbitant rentals. With the exorbitant rentals he has charged
over the years he has built in Wellington a very large building, which is not fully occupied.
The real problems of the building industry began in 1967, when the then Minister of


## p. 2015 (#471) ###########################################

9 August
2015
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Finance, now the Prime Minister, decided to make that industry the whipping boy for his
economic problems. He is doing that again this year. He knows that he cannot finance the
superannuation scheme unless he makes a whipping boy of some issue, and he has chosen
the building industry. That was the worst possible choice. It is all very well for the Minister of
Housing to sit back contentedly. I have told him before that when he returns to his nice
palatial home on a Friday night he is totally unaware of the problems, and does not
understand the heartbreak of others who go home from work on a Friday night. If a bloke
rents his home, he knows that a letter could be waiting there telling him that his rental has
been increased; or, if he has a heavy mortgage, he wonders whether he will find a letter
telling him that his home is to be sold and that he must obtain alternative accommodation.
The Minister of Housing knows that State house building has been run down under the
National Government. In my own home town, 1100 applications for State houses have been
made, and on average only four houses become available for allocation each month. Is the
Minister happy about that situation? The National Government is not building State houses
and, even worse, it is selling the land bank acquired by the former Labour Government. I
understand that a third of the land acquired at Rolleston is to be sold. Is it intended to sell it
to the property speculators such as the Bob Joneses, who are the Minister's friends, or to
land agents? That is another of the negative policies that have held housing construction at
the low level of 22 000 units a year, when demand clearly shows that at least 30 000 should be
built.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time has
expired.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): First, I want to say
that the home of the Minister of Housing cannot fairly be described as palatial; it is a good,
sound, normal suburban home. If the member for Napier wants to adopt that level of
debate, I could refer to some of the homes owned by Opposition members. However, I do
not consider there is any future in that and will not do so. I merely make the point. The
member for Napier told the House of the housing industry's problems. They began when the
former Labour Government assumed office in December 1972 and continued throughout
1973, when the Labour Government became very profligate with the nation's money and
adopted a very expansive immigration policy; it was then that housing problems became
apparent. The problems we are facing today, which the Minister of Housing is grappling with
very well indeed, started during Labour's administration. The average cost of a house and
section, according to the figures given by the Government Statistician, increased from
almost $17,000 in 1972, when the Labour Government came into office, to about $34,000 in
1975, when it went out of office. That was the basic cause of the housing problems we are
grappling with today; it was the start of the problem. The prices young people had to pay for
their homes increased substantially during those 3 years. The Minister of Housing is doing a
very good job indeed, and is in the process of implementing new policies.
I thank the member for Napier for inviting me to read page 6 of tonight's Evening Post.
He was talking about national superannuation and venting his spleen on the subject,
following the Labour line. Opposition members are opposed to national superannuation,
and the only inference that can be drawn from their statements is that a Labour Government
would abolish the scheme if it ever had the opportunity to do so. The opening sentence of the
article the member for Napier asked us to read is: "Among the early noticeable failings of
the Kirk Government was its inability to produce a superannuation scheme whose benefits
matched public expectations." I had not seen that article, and thank the member for Napier
for asking me to read such a good statement. It is a fact that the people were completely
disillusioned with Labour's scheme. They came in scores to present their views to the special
select committee that considered the proposal for national superannuation. Submissions
were presented by many women from throughout New Zealand, the National Council of
Women, the Federation of University Women, social welfare organisations, and profes-
sional bodies of accountants and lawyers. All came and said, "Will you please scrap the
present scheme and produce one based on universal superannuation?"
Opposition members often talk about the wealthy people who are receiving national
superannuation. I point out to them that during their 3 years in office they supported
universal superannuation, which was available to wealthy New Zealanders. During the
election campaign National Party candidates said, "Look, we believe there is a tremendous
potential in people of 60 years of age and over who can work, earn money, and be taxed. We
will provide superannuation scheme for those people of 60 and over, so that all the people
of New Zealand can benefit from it." There is no doubt whatever that the people voted for


## p. 2016 (#472) ###########################################

2016
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that scheme, and the answer Opposition members are given repeatedly by Government
members is that the people of New Zealand wanted it that way.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: This Budget debate affords me the opportunity of
telling the House about the present position of NAFTA. During the debate, Opposition
members have criticised the state of trade between New Zealand and Australia, and the
relationship between the New Zealand and Australian Ministers. I can say immediately that
Ministers in the two countries have never had a better relationship than that which exists
between Doug Anthony, Bob Cotton, our own Minister of Overseas Trade, and myself, the
four Ministers involved in NAFTA. Total trade between the two countries, too, has never
been greater, and at no stage since the formation of NAFTA has the imbalance against New
Zealand been less.
I shall compare the trade statistics for the June years since 1967, the first year of
NAFTA. In that year, the trade imbalance against New Zealand was 4.06:1. I remind the
House and the country that the Labour Opposition was very critical of the National
Government's entering NAFTA. I shall not dwell on that at length, and I simply make the
point that the member for Roskill was one who spoke against the proposition. He is in the
House now, and is still in Opposition, which is rather significant. In 1972, the trade
imbalance had moved from more than 4:1 against New Zealand to 2.31:1, better than 2.5:1.
These were the early years of NAFTA, under the National Government. History shows that,
as a result of negotiations with their Australian counterparts entered into by successive
Ministers of the National Government, NAFTA was a success story.
Then we moved into the 3 years of the Labour Government. The trade imbalance
fluctuated somewhat during 1973 to 1975, but for the June 1975 year it had moved against
New Zealand again, from 2.31:1 to just over 3:1 against New Zealand. Despite present
problems with NAFTA—and I do not deny that we have had difficulties-the imbalance for
the year ended June 1976 was 1.95:1, or better than 2:1 against New Zealand. The imbalance
in trade for the 9 months to March 1977 improved to 1.92:1 against New Zealand. Despite
the problems, the total story is good. The member for Roskill may laugh, but when he was in
Opposition and NAFTA was started the ratio was 4:1 against New Zealand, and, when he
went out of office in 1975, it was more than 3:1 against New Zealand. However, today the
ratio is 1.92:1 against this country-a real success story. I repeat that the relationship
between Ministers, the actual trade imbalance, and total trade have never been better. Let
us have that in the context of the discussions on NAFTA in general.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: Is that why factories are closing down?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: For the benefit of the Leader of the Opposition,
there is nothing new in the announcement made in Canberra yesterday about the way New
Zealand goods are to be treated when Australia imposes global import licensing or quota
tariff measures. That decision was announced by Ministers on both sides of the Tasman in
April this year. The Australian Government is now merely stating it formally. Since that
announcement, both countries have been working under the arrangement entered into then,
which, in essence, provides that when Australia introduces global restrictions for protective
reasons New Zealand goods will be subject to these controls unless the goods are covered by
NAFTA arrangements. That is the first tranche. However, if there are no NAFTA
arrangements, there will continue to be opportunities to negotiate either schedule A or
article 3(7) arrangements to provide satisfactory reciprocal access. The April agreement,
safeguarding New Zealand's clothing exports to Australia, is an example of this.
I remind the House that a couple of years before that agreement, our total exports of
apparel to Australia were worth $2.6 million. Within the next 2 years-first under the
Labour Government and subsequently under the National Government, with greater
impetus our exports of apparel to Australia had increased in value from $2.6 million to $20
million for the year ended December 1976; a spectacular result that caused great concern to
the Australian industry and the Australian Government. In the April 1977 meetings, held in
New Zealand, we were able to negotiate arrangements for the calendar year that enable us
to export at least 4 000 000 garments to Australia. Remember, 2 years ago only 400 000
garments were exported to Australia, but that figure has now reached 4 000 000.
New Zealand exports a total of $24 million worth of apparel to 33 countries, of which
$20 million worth goes to Australia and less than $4 million worth to the 32 other countries,
thus showing the importance of the agreement negotiated by the Minister of Overseas Trade
and myself, working with our opposite numbers in Australia. We should have liked to obtain
more, but we have preserved exports into Australia worth $20 million. That proves that


## p. 2017 (#473) ###########################################

9 August
2017
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
NAFTA is working and is being honoured. I emphasise that these arrangements are well
known to New Zealand manufacturers through their federation. Indeed, there have already
been negotiations covering a number of products under the new procedures. Despite the
problems that have arisen, including those which have surfaced during the past few months.
New Zealand's exports to Australia have grown significantly, and the imbalance of trade in
favour of Australia has diminished. That can only be described as a success story.
Even in problem areas today, we see the same picture of achievement by New Zealand
industry. I shall take this opportunity to give members some perspective, which has been
absent from much of the press commentary. I shall illustrate this with statistics that are
relevant to the four problem areas we have been coping with recently. I have already quoted
the apparel figures: in 1974-75, $2.6 million; in 1975-76, $10.1 million; and, in 1976-77, I
estimate the value of the 4 000 000 garments will be $23.2 million. Let us take home
appliances: in 1974-75, $14.2 million; in 1975-76, $20.4 million; and in 1976-77, $17.3
million—a slight decline, but significantly higher than in the 1974-75 year. Textiles and yarns
are another problem area in which negotiations are being held. In 1974-75, New Zealand
exported to Australia $2.9 million worth; in 1975-76, $9.1 million worth; and, in 1976-77,
$14.8 million worth. For carpets, the value in 1974-75 was $10.4 million; in 1975-76 it was
$18.7 million; and in 1976-77 it was $25 million. In other words, total exports in those four
areas in 1974-75 amounted to $30.3 million; in 1975-76, $50.3 million; and in 1976-77—the
problem year-$80.3 million, or a further increase of $22 million for this year. I point out to
the media and to the Opposition which have been speaking critically, that the value of our
exports is increasing. We have been making progress, and that progress has concerned the
Australian Government.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: What about the factory in Palmerston North? Is that progress?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: Yes, it is progress, compared with what the
honourable gentleman did. The Leader of the Opposition would not join NAFTA. The
Opposition would not join it, but it is a success story.
I shall now give some of the factors that have created the difficulties that have kept me,
as Minister of Trade and Industry, my department, and the Manufacturers Federation, with
which we work so closely, so occupied in the past year. The first problem is that unemploy-
ment in Australia is approaching 400 000 and is increasing. The second problem is the
imposition of emergency protection tariffs and quotas by the Australian Government,
particularly in labour-intensive areas such as the apparel, footwear, carpet, and household
appliance industries. Thirdly, the Australian Government decided that it would not continue
New Zealand's exemptions from global or any quotas in these problem areas.
Now we have to consider the role of NAFTA in the negotiations. First, where a product
had a NAFTA cover-for example, domestic appliances, which come under article 3(7), or
carpets, which come within schedule A even though they are on a quota-the trade was
allowed to continue despite the restrictions. We have had an assurance from the Australian
Ministers that the agreement will be honoured. Secondly, for articles such as apparel,
footwear, brassieres, and terry towelling, which come outside the NAFTA arrangements, we
have an opportunity to negotiate a special deal for New Zealand that will benefit this
country. In addition, we will be able to negotiate special arrangements for certain fabrics and
yarns; talks are going on at the moment. On the other hand, we have not concluded a deal
for brassieres or footwear although footwear negotiations are still continuing. Although we
offered reciprocal access for a number of Australian products, we could not strike a mutually
acceptable balance.
Thirdly, we will negotiate with New Zealand industries to offer reasonable access to the
New Zealand market for products of Australian industries, but we will conclude deals only if
there is a balance of advantage to New Zealand. That is fundamental. In my discussions with
the Australian Ministers I made it clear that, having regard to the size of the population of
the two countries and to their economies, there had to be a balance of advantage to New
Zealand. In the recent instances on which we have not been able to agree, the New Zealand
offers have been fair and certainly much more forthcoming than those in the past. I pay
tribute to the New Zealand industries involved for the reasonable attitude they have adopted
in agreeing to allow access to our markets. New Zealand industries have been prepared to
approve some access that was not available to Australia before. I argued that it was fair
enough for Australia, which could not get certain products into New Zealand, to have some
access. I regret that in some instances the Australian officials have asked for too much, but
happily none of the decisions has threatened the viability of NAFTA.
The Budget put New Zealand's case most succinctly when it stated: "The Government


## p. 2018 (#474) ###########################################

2018
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
regards an expansion of the number of products which are traded freely both ways across the
Tasman as a key objective. It will be pressing the Australian Government to resume progress
in developing NAFTA as soon as economic circumstances permit, and acknowledges the
case for equitable access to the New Zealand market as part of this process. Trade with
Australia is still nearly two to one in Australia's favour and Australian manufacturers would
be unwise to press for action by their Government which would result in New Zealand
applying dollar-for-dollar quotas in total trade." We are not in that position, I am happy to
say, but we are adopting a very positive attitude in individual negotiations taking place at the
moment.
It is important also that we see the whole range of these problems in their statistical
perspective. The total value of New Zealand exports to Australia last year was $287 million,
of which whitewear, carpets, and the apparel trade accounted for $65 million; that was
protected in the NAFTA arrangement despite the recent pressures. That level has been
safeguarded by the negotiations. Future growth may have been checked on those items, but
growth is occurring elsewhere-and we are still talking to Australia. Because of Australian
difficulties progress has been slower than I should logically like to see, but we do not shrink
from the problems. In the near future Australian and New Zealand Ministers will be able to
build further on the foundations well and truly laid by the National Government when
NAFTA was born just over a decade ago.
I turn now to another subject. Opposition speakers have been complaining that the cost
of living is increasing, and they have based that claim on the figures for the June quarter.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: You're not going to say it hasn't?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: The fact is that the cost of living in the consumer
price index is moving downwards, on an annual basis. [Interruption.] Members opposite can
laugh as much as they like, but that is what the Government Statistician says. Despite the
high single June quarter, the figure for the 1977 June year is lower than for the previous two
June years. At 14 percent, it was lower than the Labour Government's last full year, that to
December 1975, when it was 15.7 percent and rising. It had in-built factors that meant it
would increase to 17.7 percent to June 1976.
The National Government has achieved three successes in holding the cost of living.
First, it has reversed the increasing trend under the Labour Government. Under that
Government the cost of living went up from 5.5 percent, when Labour promised its way into
office in 1972, to 15.7 percent after 3 years. The impetus was there, and it would have
increased further. We have reversed that trend and brought the figure down to 14 percent on
an annual basis, and it will gradually and steadily come down. Secondly, we have absorbed
into the consumer price index the cost to the taxpayers of the very high subsidies the Labour
Government had to provide after it had promised not to increase rail, postal, and electricity
charges to consumers. Thirdly, despite the problems caused by the cost of imported inflation
and increased wage rates, which amounts to a major part of the consumer price index-as we
have demonstrated recently-we have encouraged competition in business to the extent that
several consumer items are actually lower in price than they were under the Labour
Government in 1975.
I should like to give some illustration of that. Here is a packet of Persil-persilated
soda-which in 1975 had a list price of 81c in any grocery in the electorate of the Leader of
the Opposition. On 21 July, in three shops competing for business in Karori-not in the big
smoke, where there is too much worry about parking difficulties-the price was 79c, or 2c
lower. After wage increases of about 16 percent, and after increases in pensions, consumers
and pensioners can buy Persil for 2c less than the price under the Labour Government. In
August 1975 a tin of spaghetti cost 38c, but on 21 July 1977 the consumer could buy in Karori
three tins of spaghetti for $1, which is nearly 5c a can less than the price paid under the
Labour Government. A packet of cornflakes, which cost 57c in August 1975 under the
Labour Government, cost 54c on 21 July 1977. In August 1975 Janola cost 44c, but on 21
July 1977 it cost 39c. The Opposition says that it is a difference of only 5c, but it is 5c less,
and that means something to the pensioner and the consumer. Finally, for the parents, a roll
of school lunch-wrap has been reduced in price from 26c in August 1975 to 19c in July 1977.
In October 1975 the average wage was $95.66, and by April 1977 it had risen to $118.16.
In 1975 the person on the average wage would have had to work for 1 hour 15 minutes to buy
the goods I have mentioned tonight, but that has been reduced to 55 minutes under the
National Government. The difference represents a saving of 20 minutes in time, or 27
percent in effort, and that 27 percent effort can be put into savings. The wage earner is better
off in respect to the cost of living as measured by the consumer price index as a whole than he


## p. 2019 (#475) ###########################################

9 August
2019
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
was in 1975 under the Labour Government; he is demonstrably and spectacularly better off
in respect to the individual items I have mentioned.
The Budget is a good Budget. It is aimed at the development of manufacturing in New
Zealand. I am concerned at the increases in the cost of living, but I am confident the
Government will succeed with this major problem. Not one Opposition member would
admit that the prices of these products has decreased, so I felt I should do so. As various
debates develop, the Government will take the opportunity to bring to the notice of the
House other items that cost less now than they did under the socialist Government with its
airy-fairy policies. Under this Government, the cost of living will go down; and our progress
in manufacturing, in NAFTA, and in exporting will increase. I suggest to the House and the
country that this Budget will ensure that New Zealand continues to develop positively in the
interests of the wage earner and the family.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): The Minister of Trade and Industry is capable of
arguing that black is white and white is black, he is also capable of arguing that the cost of
living is coming down. What a load of nonsense! His argument was based on a number of
specials that were selling at a slightly lower price than the ordinary price in 1975. That sounds
like special pleading. He produced a can of spaghetti. I understand that one or two
manufacturers have actually reduced the number of beans, and increased the quantity of
tomato sauce. The Minister also argued that the rate of inflation is decreasing. I should like
to ask the Minister a simple question: did the consumer price index rise by 4.8 percent in the
last 3 months, or did it not? Of course it did. People can multiply, and 4.8 multiplied by 4
gives an annual inflation rate of over 18 percent. The Minister gave an interesting talk on
NAFTA, and by their deeds he shall know them. I should like to know why, if NAFTA is
such a great success, the biggest single industry on Waiheke Island has closed down.
[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: We are having far too many enthusiastic aids to the member who has the
floor.
Mr PREBBLE: It is a fact that the biggest single industry on Waiheke Island is closing
down, because the NAFTA negotiations did not save it. The Minister stands condemned for
the closure of that industry..
I am appalled by the Budget. I first read the Budget half a day before the Minister of
Finance delivered it, and I read it in the Dominion. It is now an established fact that the
Budget was leaked, and I bring to the attention of the House the importance of that leak.
The committee set up to inquire into this leak established that there was a leak, but failed to
establish who had leaked the information and why.
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I know that the Budget debate
allows members to debate almost everything, but there is an Order of the Day set down. I
suggest that the member for Auckland Central is proceeding outside the Standing Orders if
he wants to debate something that is set down on the Order Paper and has not yet been
concluded.
Mr PREBBLE: Speaking to the point of order, I presume the Minister is referring to
Standing Order 177, which states: "No member shall anticipate the discussion of any subject
which appears on the Order Paper. . ." However, there is an important proviso: ".
Provided that in determining whether a discussion is out of order on the ground of
anticipating, regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability of the matter anticipated
being brought before the House within a reasonable time." I draw to your attention an
article that appeared in the Dominion on 5 August. The report has not been denied,
although the statement was given in a newspaper report, and not to the House as it should
have been. The article states: "The Prime Minister does not intend to allow debate to
continue in Parliament on the report of the committee set up to investigate the Dominion's
Budget predictions." The article makes a number of statements about what the Prime
Minister thought of the contribution of members on this side of the House. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! Two senior members, one on each side of the House, are having
a private, rather objectionable conversation when I am ostensibly listening to a point of
order.
Mr PREBBLE: The article states: "The motion that the report of the committee do lie
on the table and be adopted and agreed to will stay on the parliamentary Order Paper
without members voting on it." The Prime Minister made that statement. The decision to
leave the motion on the Order Paper is an attempt to gag the Opposition. Standing Order
177 allows you to allow me to discuss the matter, because the Prime Minister has made a
clear statement in the Dominion. When I gave notice of my intention to move the motion,


## p. 2020 (#476) ###########################################

2020
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
several statements were made about my motives. If I am not allowed to discuss the matter
during the Budget debate, information the committee did not look at and statements made
about me cannot be discussed in the House. I regard the leak of Budget secrets as important;
I believe I should be allowed to discuss the committee's report, and to make suggestions to
the House about what further action should be taken. Finally, I draw your attention to the
fact that the Prime Minister has appeared to indicate that he wants members on this side of
the House to suggest what should be done, and I am prepared to do that.
Hon. David Thomson: The member for Auckland Central is correct when he refers to
Standing Order 177, which reads: "No member shall anticipate the discussion of any subject
which appears on the Order Paper: Provided that in determining whether a discussion is out
of order on the ground of anticipating, regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability
of the matter anticipated being brought before the House within a reasonable time." I do not
deny the existence of that Standing Order. I draw to your attention Standing Order 173,
which reads: "Debates of same session not to be alluded to—No member shall allude to any
debate of the same session upon a question or Bill not being then under discussion, except by
the indulgence of the House, for personal explanations." The matter is not a Bill; it is a
Government notice of motion on today's Order Paper. The motion reads: "Interrupted
debate on the question, That the report (of the Committee on the Alleged Budget Leak) do
lie upon the Table, and be adopted and agreed to." Standing Order 173 makes that clearly
out of court. It is important that we should have your ruling on this matter, because if the
member for Auckland Central proceeds on the course of asserting that there was a Budget
leak, when the committee found no proof of that, I will certainly want to comment on that
subject.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: The argument of the Minister of Justice that Standing Order
173 is relevant can be dismissed, because it deals with a question or Bill being under
discussion. There is no question of a Bill being under discussion. My colleague the member
for Auckland Central has stated quite clearly, and every member of the House knows, that
the Prime Minister chose to make a public statement about the matter in which he said that
Parliament would not resume discussion on this question. The Standing Order referred to by
my colleague the member for Auckland Central is relevant, particularly the last section,
which reads: ". . . regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability of the matter
anticipated being brought before the House within a reasonable time." It is clear from the
assurance of the Leader of the House that the matter will not be brought before the House
within a reasonable time, and will not be brought before the House at all. In those
circumstances it is reasonable that the member for Auckland Central, who instigated the
raising of the question, should be able to refer to the matter at this time.
One cannot help but be left with the feeling that the point of order was raised not so
much as a point of order, but as a disruption. I make the point that, notwithstanding the
provocative and not all together uninteresting speech of the Minister of Trade and Industry,
there was no attempt by this side of the House to effect the kind of disruption that is now
being seen.
Mr SPEAKER: I find no difficulty with this point. I shall say first that the allegation of
an attempt to gag the House does no particular credit to the member who made the
suggestion; one of the prime reasons for my saying that is the ruling I am about to give.
Secondly, I think it has been correctly argued that the words at the end of Standing Order
177, ... regard shall be had by the Speaker to the probability of the matter anticipated
being brought before the House within a reasonable time", are strictly relevant, as it has
been indicated that it is not intended to proceed with the debate on the question that the
report do lie upon the table. It seems to me in order, so far as Standing Order 177 is
concerned, that I should allow discussion of the matter now or later in this debate.
Standing Order 173 is a very important Standing Order, which provides that there is to
be no allusion to debates of the same session. I do not find that the discussion of the subject
of an earlier debate is out of order, provided there is no allusion to what was said, or what
happened, in a debate of the same session on that subject. For that reason—although I do
not in any way support the suggestion that the point was raised as a disruptive tactic, and I
did not think that was helpful to the House, as the point of order was just as validly based as
many others that succeed and many others that do not succeed-I rule in favour of the
member who has the floor and say that he may, if he likes, proceed to discuss this matter, but
he may not allege that the report proved there was a leak, because the wording of the report
makes it clear that that is not contained in the report.
Mr PREBBLE: I have given a great deal of thought to the Budget leak, and believe it is


## p. 2021 (#477) ###########################################

9 August
2021
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
possible to determine who leaked the information and why.
Hon. David Thomson: Then disclose it; you have a duty to.
Mr PREBBLE: Before I do so, I shall give the results of my analysis. I should like to
explain to the country why I am a strong advocate of open government and Budget secrecy.
Many misinformed people cannot see why Budgets should remain secret. The simple reason
is that knowledge of Budget proposals enables unscrupulous speculators to make money at
the public's expense. One piece of information in the Dominion article turned out to be
correct, and could have been used by speculators. A person with bond liquor could have
taken it out the moment he read the article in the Dominion, and would have avoided the
higher tax. I have not been able to determine whether any unusual financial claims were
made on the day of the Budget, and, if so, whether they could have been traced to the
Dominion article.
I am concerned about the suggestion that the leak was not a major leak. I read that
Dominion article the day it came out, and I thought to myself, "This is the good oil." I ran
through it, and I ticked off the number of clear statements of what was claimed to be in the
Budget. I counted 13 such statements, which ranged from a categorical statement that there
would be an increase in the tax on beer and cigarettes to a correct statement that there would
be a proposal to increase the road transport limit by approximately doubling it—which
turned out to be right. Only 2 of the 13 were wrong, and even they were not completely
wrong. The first statement was that there would be assistance for maraes, but that was linked
with a proposal for pre-school education, which was contained in the Budget. I believe a
marae could qualify for that assistance if it decided to allow itself to be set up for pre-school
education. Therefore, that statement was not completely wrong. The second statement was
that there would be no assistance for those receiving the standard tertiary bursary. Well,
there will be no assistance this year-they will not get it until next year. The other nine
statements I analysed turned out to be completely correct. I ticked them off one by one with
growing amazement as the Prime Minister delivered the Budget on Budget night. Therefore,
the article was not 60 percent wrong, but about 95 percent right. That is an amazingly
accurate forecast.
The journalists themselves said that it was not speculation-they got the information
from a political source. When an article is almost 95 percent accurate, and when the
journalists themselves say it is not speculation, we must accept the word of the journalists
without any reservations whatsoever. It concerns me that the committee did not ask the
journalists what else they discovered-matters they did not include in the article. At that
time it was being predicted that the Budget would contain something for the share market,
and on Budget day the share market went up because of what people believed. I should like
to know whether those journalists knew that that prediction was wrong, and whether they
exercised their editorial responsibility by not publishing a statement that could have been
regarded as irresponsible. They were not asked that question, and we can criticise the
committee on the ground that it did not do its job properly. But the crunch question—
Hon. David Thomson: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest that the member is
defying the ruling of the Chair. He is now referring to the report of the select committee,
which you specifically ruled out of order under Standing Order 173. You told the member
for Auckland Central that the subject of the report of the committee could be discussed by
the House, but not the debate on the report of that committee.
Mr PREBBLE: Speaking to the point of order, I should like to draw to your attention
that you ruled that the debate could not be referred to, and I followed that ruling very
carefully. I referred only to the report of the committee, and not to the debate. Anyway, if it
will assist the House, I have completed my argument in that area and wish to move on to a
more important matter. I have discussed the actions of the committee, rather than the
debate on those actions.
Mr SPEAKER: As far as I myself observed, there was no breach, but I was not
following closely enough at that moment to be able to say that with assurance. However, I
am not prepared to find that there was a breach. If the member concerned is interested, he
may care to listen to what I am saying. Some members have a greater capacity than others
for doing two things simultaneously. The point I make-and I stress it is that an allusion to
another debate of the same session is completely out of order. The reference to the report of
a committee that was the subject of a debate is not similarly out of order. The subject itself is
not excluded because it has been debated, but the debate must not be alluded to. I was not
aware of the member's having transgressed in that way. Also, as he has assured us that he
now wants to move to a separate topic, the matter becomes of less importance.


## p. 2022 (#478) ###########################################

2022
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr PREBBLE: A second topic, Mr Speaker, but it is within the same subject, and does
not refer to the debate. The crunch question, which has been asked by the Prime Minister
and with which everyone would agree, is who leaked these proposals from the Budget? We
all know that those who produce the Budget are people of great responsibility, and
extremely hard working. As it has been left the matter is unsatisfactory, because a slur is cast
on a number of people who, when we think about it, are extremely unlikely to have leaked
the contents of the Budget.
Hon. David Thomson: Why do you cast the slur?
Mr PREBBLE: The person who leaked the information has no sympathy at all from this
side of the House. There are certain groups of people who I know saw the Budget, and who I
am certain did not leak its contents. First, I do not believe that any member of the Cabinet
did so. I am certain that no Cabinet Minister would have leaked one word from the Budget,
partly because it has never happened in the history of the country, and partly because of the
serious oath Cabinet Ministers take when they assume office. And, although I have no time
for the present Cabinet, any Cabinet Minister knows that if he leaked dynamite-which
Budget information would be-he would be hopelessly compromised to the journalist he
told, because if it came out he would have to resign.
It is also clear that no officer of the Treasury would have leaked it. Our Treasury
officers are of the highest integrity, and it is inconceivable that they would have given
information to a press gallery reporter. Treasury traditions of secrecy have been commented
on in Government reports-Treasury officers are so secret that they do not know themselves
what they are doing. I also refuse to believe that the information could have come from a
member of the Legislative Department. The officers of the Legislative Department are of
the highest integrity. They handle secrets every day, so why on earth would they want to leak
information from the Budget?
Hon. David Thomson: Then name the person, or withdraw the charge!
Mr PREBBLE: So what are we left with?
Mr Courtney: Yes, what are we left with?
Mr PREBBLE: We are left with the fact that the reporters have said that matters were
leaked to them; we are also left with the fact that this is the first leak of a Budget taxing
proposal in the history of New Zealand.
Hon. David Thomson: A completely wrong allegation.
Mr PREBBLE: That is worth remembering.
Miss Dewe: Who is the member accusing?
Mr PREBBLE: The Prime Minister has asked me to tell him where he should start
looking, and I intend to tell him. First, we should say, "What is different about our political
structure today?" What is different from the past, because what we have had in the past has
been leak proof, as we all know? We know what is different, and the Prime Minister knows
what is different, about our political structure today. We have a most unusual
department—a department that does not follow the Public Service traditions of impartiality,
and is not bound by the traditions of the House. That is where the inquiries should start. We
should also ask ourselves-and this is what the committee should have done "What
possible motive would anyone have for leaking the Budget?" I believe that, if the people had
read in the newspaper after the Budget, or had heard for the first time on that Thursday
night, that for the first time in 20 years the tax on beer and cigarettes had been increased—
An Hon. Member: A grubby man.
Mr PREBBLE: the Budget would have been described as the blackest Budget-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We are having far too many and far too energetic interjections
from the crossbenches and elsewhere.
Mr PREBBLE: If beer and cigarettes had gone up in price without any warning, as they
did in the 1958 Budget, the effect on the people would have been like dynamite; and
politically aware people knew that. The Government knows that, too, and it also knows that
it was in the interests of the National Party-and I repeat that I do not suggest that any
member of the House leaked the Budget information—that everyone should believe there
was to be an increase, so that when it came the Budget, instead of being regarded as a
"black" Budget, would be regarded as a ho-hum Budget. We know that there is now a
department of State set up to manage news. I think that is a charitable way of putting it: news
management. I suggest that that strange new department, which sits over the top of the Civil
Service, which does not seem to be responsible to anyone, which now has 78 members in it,
which now recruits directly from the National Party's headquarters-
Mr Talbot: Stop telling lies.


## p. 2023 (#479) ###########################################

9 August
2023
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Mr PREBBLE: which owes its loyalty not to this House but to the National Party
itself—and that is how they are appointed-is where I would start to look: in the Prime
Minister's Department. I want to go further, and say that there should not be a witch hunt in
that department, because I firmly believe that, if that type of party politics is introduced into
our Civil Service, then this type of news management, this type of news manipulation, is
inevitable. That is what happens in America. We know that is what happened in Watergate.
Mr Talbot: It's a lie.
Mr PREBBLE: It is worth noting that the people who are in jail today in America are
the civil servants who regarded their responsibility as being a party one rather than a civil
one, to the State. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I find it very inappropriate to have so many and continuous
interjections. I thought I heard the word "grubby" used once or twice, although I am not
sure. If it were used, it was highly unparliamentary; if it crops up again, I shall try to locate
who uses it, and require him to apologise.
Mr Christie: A point of order, Mr Speaker. Is it in order for any member to tell another
member to stop telling lies, and to say that it is a lie?
Mr SPEAKER: The honourable member asks a question, the answer to which he well
knows. It is obviously out of order to say, "It's a lie." That is very well known, and, if that
were said, if the person is identified I shall most certainly have it withdrawn.
Mr Talbot: Mr Speaker, if you so rule, I shall withdraw it. It was an exceptional remark
that I made, because of the comments that were made. But, if you so rule, I shall withdraw
it.
Mr SPEAKER: The member has at least identified himself, which is proper. Now he will
withdraw the remark without qualification—just say, "I withdraw.”
Mr Talbot: Mr Speaker, I shall withdraw, without qualification, if necessary.
Mr SPEAKER: I did not hear what the member added. I said, "without qualification".
Now he will say, "I withdraw", and sit down.
Mr Talbot: Mr Speaker, I withdraw.
Mr Kirk: A point of order, Mr Speaker. During the barrage, it was also clear that the
member for Dunedin North called the member for Auckland Central "Richard Nixon" on
occasions, and I think that that term should not be used in this Chamber.
Mr SPEAKER: I think a little discretion and a sense of the appropriate would enable
members at some point to let the debate go on. We may have half a dozen of these. I am sure
some very inappropriate interjections were made. One or two have been withdrawn, and I
have reproved one member. If it is really desired, I shall track this one down and have it
withdrawn too. Who used the expression?
Mr Kirk: The member for Dunedin North.
Mr SPEAKER: Did the member for Dunedin North accuse the member of being
Richard Nixon?-an obvious mistake in identity.
Richard Walls: I used the term, which was both appropriate and accurate.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member admits he used the term, and applied it to the
member who was speaking? Is that correct?
Richard Walls: Yes.
Mr SPEAKER: Then he will withdraw, and, if he makes any qualification, he will
apologise. He will just say, "I withdraw", and leave it at that.
Richard Walls: I will withdraw, and leave it that, Sir.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That is an affront to the Chair. The member will apologise.
Richard Walls: I am sorry, Sir. I just thought-I am sorry, I shall withdraw it.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not want an explanation. The member will apologise.
Richard Walls: I apologise, Sir.
Mr Allen: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I ask for your guidance as to why a member
from one side of the House-the Opposition member for Auckland Central, who was
speaking-can refer to Watergate in terms that slur the whole of the Prime Minister's
Department, but a member from this side of the House cannot use the name of a previous
President of the United States.
Mr SPEAKER: I think the point is peculiarly aptly taken. I was not listening too closely
to the reference to Watergate, but I think it was probably not as direct as the charge that the
member himself was akin to Richard Nixon. If it were, it was quite out of order, and I ask the
member to repeat it. I am sorry we are wasting all this time on this byplay. What was the
expression the member used in regard to Watergate?
Mr PREBBLE: Mr Speaker, I drew the attention of the House to the fact that the


## p. 2024 (#480) ###########################################

2024
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
people who are in jail today over the Watergate matter were all, in fact, United States civil
servants. That was my reference to Watergate.
Mr McLay: What a slur!
Mr PREBBLE: And, for the benefit of the member for Birkenhead, that statement
happens to be true.
Mr Allen: Speaking further to the point of order, Mr Speaker, I draw to your
attention-and I think the House will support me on this-that the member who was on his
feet at the time was speaking about the Prime Minister's Department, and nothing else.
Richard Walls: That was what provoked my second interjection, which you asked me to
withdraw. I think that, if I was asked to withdraw, the member for Auckland Central-or
whatever his seat may happen to be-should also withdraw.
Mr SPEAKER: It is most regrettable, after we had sought to quieten the matter down,
that members engage in the pursuit of a number of relatively small matters like this. We have
had two withdrawals. If it has been imputed that members of the staff of the Prime Minister
are comparable to the jailed Watergate practitioners, I think it would be at least becoming if
the member withdrew that allusion, and got on with his speech.
Mr PREBBLE: I will withdraw that, Mr Speaker. May I continue now?
Mr Talbot: A clean start, that's right.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member for Auckland Central has the floor. I do not want
to take more severe action. I do not want the House to get out of hand.
Mr PREBBLE: I believe very strongly that our system of parliamentary democracy
depends upon an impartial Civil Service, a Civil Service that is selected on ability and not on
political persuasion. I am convinced that the American type of Civil Service, in which civil
servants are chosen because of their loyalty to a party and not to the country, is a disaster. In
that respect, I criticise the Prime Minister's Department most strongly. I bring it to the
attention of members opposite that the impartiality of that department is questionable-of
course it is. For more than 100 years, Prime Ministers in New Zealand have not found it
necessary to fill their department, and to get 78 people, some recruited purely because of
their political beliefs.
A department such as this is capable of saying that a debacle such as the Gleneagles
agreement is a diplomatic triumph, which is like saying that Napoleon's defeat at Waterloo
was a strategic withdrawal. It does not help the people of New Zealand to have a propaganda
department of that sort, which is all it can be described as. I resent the fact that taxpayers are
paying for that sort of propaganda, which is nothing more nor less than party political
propaganda, and does not fit within our democratic British traditions of parliamentary
impartiality. It is not the British tradition to allow press secretaries to make statements of
that sort. The only way to remove the suspicion that exists in my mind is to remove that
department. We need to sack the lot. We did not need the department in the past, and we do
not need it now.
I draw the attention of the House to the Budget, which is almost as appalling as the way
in which it was delivered. I address my remarks to two extraordinary aspects of the Budget,
because, as the Leader of the Opposition said, when you read the Budget it appears as if two
people wrote it. On page 6, the Prime Minister states, quite correctly, that the annual import
bill for oil is now approaching $550 million, and, by way of comparison, he also stated,
correctly, that that is about equal to our export receipts for dairy products. He then said that
the Government's energy strategy was directed towards reducing the importance of
imported oil in our energy requirements. The primary use of imported oil is for transport.
The National Business Review investment supplement, which I read today, quotes the
Minister of Energy Resources as saying: "A report of the workshop on alternative energy
strategy, which was a project sponsored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, says
that between 7 and 18 years from now the supply of oil will fail to meet the demand, and this
will happen regardless of whether energy prices rise 50 percent in real terms." In other
words, even if we paid $750 million for oil in today's terms, we would still not be able to get
enough. The Minister then said: "The sharpest bite of our energy supply problems lies very
definitely in our liquid fuel supplies for transport." I agree with the Minister. We can
produce electricity from a wide range of fuels, but we cannot produce liquid fuels.
On page 23 of the Budget, in announcing his great transport plan, the Prime Minister
stated: "The present restriction on the transport of goods by road in competition with the
railways is to be relaxed." That is in direct contrast to what is stated on page 6 of the Budget.
The decision to relax road transport limits will cut the throat of rail transport, and is, from an
environmental, economic, and social point of view, an unmitigated disaster. The decision to


## p. 2025 (#481) ###########################################

9 August
2025
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
increase the limit on heavy road transport from 40 miles to 93.5 miles, or 150 kilometres, will
place New Zealand's future at the beck and call of the Arab oil monopoly, and will
effectively kill regional development. [Interruption.]
For the benefit of members opposite, who do not appear to understand that trains are
more effective and more efficient than trucks, I shall quote some statistics. A modern diesel
electric locomotive, using 10 litres of disel fuel, can move a train weighing more than 14000
tonnes 1 kilometre; that gives the locomotive an efficiency of 140 kilometres per litre of fuel.
It takes seven and a half times as much force to move a heavy, rubber-tyred vehicle along a
paved highway as it does to move a similarly loaded, steel-wheeled rail vehicle along a steel
rail. In America, it has been estimated that trains produce 238 tonne-miles of transport for
every gallon of fuel, which is four times more efficient than road transport and 125 times
more efficient than air transport. Let me make it easier for those members opposite who do
not seem able to grasp these simple concepts. It takes 50 motor trucks with a 10-tonne
capacity and 50 drivers to move the same load as a goods train with a crew of 3.
From an environmental point of view, rail has other advantages. Higher burning
temperatures in the engine mean it is cleaner burning. As trains are less frequent, they
produce less noise; they use less land for the same volume of traffic and take up less urban
and rural space; they therefore result in less disturbance of the landscape. Trains are more
efficient and keep down inflation by providing the most economic form of freight transport.
In this year's Budget, the Government appears to have given up on inflation and decided to
jump on the bandwagon. The Government's proposal will result in a huge increase in
trucking between Auckland and Hamilton, and Palmerston North and Wellington. Both
Palmerston North and Hamilton are growing at a reasonable rate, but what will be the effect
on cities such as Rotorua, Gisborne, New Plymouth, and Hastings?
Hon. C. C. A. McLachlan: There will be trouble, all right.
Mr PREBBLE: Yes. As those cities will not be able to use trucks, they will be at more of
a disadvantage than Palmerston North and Hamilton. The member for South Canterbury
said that the South Island would not like that. I should like him to name two major South
Island centres that are 150 kilometres apart. He cannot, because there are none. It would
have been better for the South Island if there had been no limit, as a limit of 150 kilometres is
the worst possible choice for the area. A large modern truck can cost $100,000 and $1 million
will buy only 10. Fifty trucks, which have the same capacity as one goods train, cost $5
million and have to be imported, as does the fuel to run them. They will be four times less
efficient.
It is incredibly stupid that the new transport limits will come into force this year. No one
can deny that the roads from Auckland to Hamilton and Wellington to Palmerston North
were not built to take heavy trucks carrying the loads they will be carrying. I predict that
those roads will be torn to pieces. It was interesting to read in the Budget that the road tax is
to be increased. If one reads that statement carefully, one finds that the total amount of
revenue from trucking operations will be no greater than at present. Therefore, the revenue
needed to maintain those roads will have to come from elsewhere. Is the Minister of
Transport not aware that the National Roads Board has no cash; even though it has stated
that publicly? Where will that money come from? Not from the tax.
I want to make clear to the Minister a simple statement that appeared in his depart-
ment's own publication Rails: "A large truck and trailer with a gross weight of 39 tonnes
would have four 8.2-tonne axles." This is the crunch line: “That truck would cause as much
pavement wear as 20 000 to 30 000 ordinary cars." I do not know if the Minister consulted his
department before the Budget went through, but let us look at the amount of tax that truck
operators have to pay. It has been estimated that, over a distance of 160 kilometres, they
levy towards the National Roads Board that is paid on a 1-ton car is approximately 70c,
whereas that on a 30-ton truck is only $3.40. To pay the same proportion, a truck operator
would have to pay about $2,000, and no one would suggest that. However, that would be a
fair proportion of the roading costs.
If we look at the true economic costs, which the Government keeps talking about,
trucks are not as economical as rail. Any export industry that thinks that the transport of its
products to overseas markets will be more efficient if it uses trucks is fooling itself, because
private motorists are subsidising the cost of trucking. We have the basis of an extremely good
rail system in New Zealand, and money should be put into the railways, because we know we
will have a liquid fuels crisis in the 1980s. Do not take my word for it. Read this year's
Maiden report, which states that New Zealand will have a shortage of petrol and oil from the
present day to the end of the century. What do we do about it? We open up the roads to


## p. 2026 (#482) ###########################################

2026
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
trucks, and do not provide anything for the upkeep of the roads. We are providing a problem
for ourselves, which the Labour Government will have to clear up in the 1980s. The only
beneficiaries of this proposal are the franchise holders for heavy trucks, garage owners, and
perhaps the construction people, who will have to repair the roads next year after they have
been torn apart.
I want to make it clear to the Minister, who seems sceptical, that the figures I have
quoted are taken from his department's own publications. I defy any member opposite to
refute one of the facts I have put before the House. If they cannot do that, can they tell us
why the decision was made, because it will be the kiss of death to regional development in
the South Island? When the Prime Minister makes his next visit to New Zealand, I urge
members opposite to get him in a corner in caucus and persuade him to change that decision,
because if he does not the weight around the necks of the farmers and the people in the 1980s
will be intolerable. We need a new deal for the Railways. The Labour Government was
moving towards that, and it is high time the National Government realised that it has made a
monumental blunder. It should come up with a new deal for the Railways.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): When the Labour Party was unable,
over the weekend, to make up its mind who should be the candidate at the next election for
the Auckland Central seat, I thought it was just another example of the Labour leadership's
inability to make up its mind.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: That is not correct.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I agree that it is not correct. The Labour leadership was quite
right in questioning whether the present member for Auckland Central should continue to
represent that seat in Parliament. I had thought that perhaps the member for Grey Lynn was
ending his days of political service, but he has my best wishes. One characteristic of socialist
dictatorships is that individuals can be, and are, convicted upon unsubstantiated allegation
alone, with no corroboration. We all know that, because I think every member of the House
has read Solzhenitsyn's Gulag Archipelago. It is utterly alien to our sense of justice in the
English tradition and in Western democracies that any person should be convicted upon
unsubstantiated, uncorroborated allegation, yet that is what the member for Auckland
Central would have us do. I am not a lawyer, but to me it is inconceivable that any member
of the legal profession in New Zealand, with any sense of his profession's ethics and honour,
would stoop to make such a charge. If he did that in the courts, I have not the slightest doubt
that he would be facing a charge of professional misconduct.
It is very easy to publish things for public entertainment. I suppose that if anybody on
the morning of the Budget, had had a bet on what would be in the Budget, the bookies
would have made no money at all. All of our money would have been on the probability that
there would be imposts on tobacco and alcohol. It had been canvassed over the weeks. My
colleague the Minister of Health, with his concern to develop community health, had
canvassed it when he was overseas, and we all knew about it. The Prime Minister had
indicated his appreciation of the suggestion. We all expected that we would have to pay more
for our smokes and our drinks, and it was so. One paper asserted that this would be so. None
of us took any particular notice of it until the day after the Budget, when the member for
Auckland Central asserted that what had been canvassed for public entertainment in a paper
had become fact—not that there might have been a Budget leak, but that there had been a
Budget leak. He asserted that without any corroborative evidence or substantiation.
There is no proof that there was any Budget leak. I do not believe there was, and I do
not believe that the member for Auckland has any reason to believe that there was. But that
does not prevent him, within the protective walls of this Chamber, from casting a very
serious and scurrilous slur upon members of the Prime Minister's staff. He will not step
outside this Chamber and make that charge against any individual member of the Prime
Minister's staff. No way would he do that. I therefore wish the member for Grey Lynn well
in the Labour Party's selection of its candidates for the Auckland Central seat, because we in
Parliament can well do without such members as the present member for Auckland Central,
who purports to be a lawyer-a member of a learned and honourable profession—but does
not act like one.
This is the second Budget brought down by the National Government, and it is
distinguished by the implementation of a great number of the undertakings given by the
Government during the 1975 election campaign. Those undertakings include encouragement
to the fishing industry and other industries, relief to those on lower incomes, relief to
ratepayers by tax rebates for rates on owner-occupied homes, and special provisions for
elderly people-widows and others-living in large homes, who want to get into smaller


## p. 2027 (#483) ###########################################

9 August
2027
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
more manageable homes. I refer particularly to provisions for family assistance in the
taxation rates set out in the Budget. The Labour Opposition, the socialists, as they call
themselves-why, I do not know-live in a make-believe world, and would have us all live in
that kind of world. Members opposite deceive themselves, and think it would be a good idea
if we had the same concepts.
The Budget debate was opened by the Leader of the Opposition with a great moan
about the taxation rates that now apply. Who set those rates? Was it the National
Government? No, the Labour Government set those taxation rates in 1975. The rates that
apply today are the same rates, less the deductions provided in 1976 and in 1977 by the
National Government. It is worth repeating the words in the Budget about family taxation
assistance: "In last year's Budget the Government introduced the young family rebate to
assist those on low incomes with young families." Perhaps I should recall that those with an
income of $100 a week or less and with one child under 5 were able to gain $6 a week, or $312
a year, in tax relief. The Budget continues: "It has been decided that additional tax relief is
necessary for low-income families and families relying on only one income. From 1 October
1977 the PAYE tax tables will include"-because of the National Government's
decision "an expanded young family rebate for the principal income earner in families with
a child under 5 years of age. Instead of the present rebate of $6 a week on incomes up to $100
a week, the rebate will be increased to $9 a week—or $468 a year-on incomes up to $150
a week. The increased rebate will reduce by 10c per dollar of income in excess of $150 a
week"; but it will affect the incomes of those receiving up to $240 a week or more. The
present maximum, of course, is $140 a week. The National Government is concerned about
the people on low incomes, especially families with young children.
Mr T. J. Young: You wouldn't believe it.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: That is absolutely true. The socialists will not believe it
because they deceive themselves. They live in a make-believe world. They are like Alice
right through the looking glass. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We must not have outbursts like that.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: The socialists do not believe it, and they do not want anyone
else to believe it. The member for Hutt is right. In addition, we are introducing a new rebate
for single-income families with a child under 10. It will also be available to widows and other
solo parents with a child under 10. The new rebate, to be claimed by the principal income
earner, will be $208 a year, or $4 a week. This new rebate will considerably reduce the
disadvantage suffered by single-income families under the present personal income tax
structure.
The National Government does not talk and not do, in the way of socialist Govern-
ments. In fact, we often do a great deal without talking about it very much. I am very glad
indeed tonight to talk about our concern, as expressed in the Budget, for the lower-income
people and particularly for those with young families. I do not believe it has been said in the
Budget debate that thousands upon thousands of New Zealand families will benefit from
those provisions. It is estimated that the number of families affected by the provisions we
made last year for a $6-a-week rebate for those on an income of $100 a week or less, with a
child under 5 in the family, was 90 000. I emphasise that 90 000 New Zealand families-not
90 000 individuals, but 90 000 New Zealand families-were eligible for and benefited from
that rebate provided last year in the National Government's Budget.
The additional families eligible for the expanded young-family rebate provisions in this
year's Budget number 70 000, making a total of 160 000 New Zealand families who will
benefit by the original family rebate and the additional expanded rebate. Families eligible
for the new single-income family rebate of $208 a year number 156 000. All are on lower
incomes and have young children. It is also right to say that, of those 156 000 families who
are eligible for the single-income family rebate, it is estimated that about 98 000 will also
receive the expanded young-family rebate in 1977-78. Therefore, it is estimated that about
218 000 New Zealand families on lower incomes will receive tax relief under those schemes
in the 1977-78 tax year. In other words, 128 000 more are eligible this year than were eligible
last year for the original young family rebate. Those are the facts, as near as we can estimate
them, on the numbers of people who will benefit from the rebates set out in the Budget for
lower-income New Zealand families with young children.
Yet the Leader of the Opposition and every other socialist on the Opposition benches
would have us believe that nothing in the Budget will relieve the burden of taxation. I have
given the facts; I do not deal in make-believe. None of us on this side of the House does. We
believe that the only way to overcome problems is to face up to them. We accept that some


## p. 2028 (#484) ###########################################

2028
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
of the decisions we have to make will not be popular, but we make them in the best interests
of the country and of the people. If ever there was proof of the socialist Labour Party's tragic
inability to make decisions it was over the past weekend, when Labour members were simply
not able to make up their minds. Well, thank goodness we have a Prime Minister in the
National Government who can make up his mind. I know that many of my acquaintances
think he makes up his mind too rapidly and do not agree with him, and I do not believe
members opposite agree with him either, but it is tremendously important in any country, in
any business, or in any family to have somebody who will face the difficulties of life and,
facing them with all the information available, make up his mind and overcome the
problems.
The Budget also recognises that we have major problems ahead of us in expanding
production, particularly for the overseas markets. As a member representing a farming
district of Taranaki, I am particularly concerned that the farmers should maintain the
confidence they have demonstrated in the past 18 months under the third National
Government. I believe their confidence is warranted in the sense that they have a Govern-
ment that is sensitive to the farming industry and its tremendous importance in earning
overseas funds. They know the historic facts about our overseas funds-that 4 years ago we
were in credit around the world by well over $1,000 million, but that it was all blown in an
orgy of spending by the third Labour Government. The whole of that $1,000 million soon
went and the people know that the Labour Government then arranged to borrow overseas,
at very high interest rates and on very short terms, considerably more than $2,000 million,
although it drew considerably less than that. At the end of its 3-year term in office it was
almost $1,000 million in the red-$994 million I think. That was a fantastic performance. In 3
years the Labour Government, in an orgy of spending—
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: An orgy?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes, an orgy-and I do not intend to make it sound like a
pleasant orgy; it was the sort of orgy that produces a hangover. We have faced up to that
problem. To sort out this hangover takes a bit of doing, and the necessary action at the
beginning is not very pleasant.
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider: The Labour Party is trying to sort out a hangover now.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes, the Labour Party has a hangover from last weekend,
but eventually it will solve it by making decisions, and I take this opportunity of wishing the
member for Grey Lynn well. I have always been a very fortunate member of Parliament and
Minister through having one of the finest teams of Ministers to work with that I have ever
known. Tonight the Minister of Trade and Industry demonstrated that with his great success
story of the NAFTA position. Every Minister in the National Government is master in his
own house. That is one of the problems the Labour Party is faced with right now. I wish it
well, because the country needs a better Opposition.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: We certainly need a better Government.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I always say we should have the best Government possible.
Every New Zealander would say that. At present, we have almost the best possible
Government-and I am being quite modest, because I do not know of a better Government
in New Zealand's history. It might be a little optimistic for me to wish for a better one than
we have now. I repeat that all the Ministers in this National Government are masters in their
own house, and are led by an outstanding Prime Minister and Minister of Finance. As our
previous leader, Sir Keith Holyoake, used to say, he is probably the greatest Minister of
Finance New Zealand has ever seen.
I do not intend to say any more in this Budget debate. I had not intended to speak until
about a week hence, but the quite unconscionable accusations of the member for Auckland
Central brought me to my feet. His allegations are without foundation. He knows that in no
way can he corroborate those assertions. For him to take a piece of journalistic entertain-
ment and make of it a substantial charge is, in my view, not worthy of one who should be not
only an honourable, but a learned member of this House, and so I take the opportunity for
the fourth time, of wishing the member for Grey Lynn well in the selection for Auckland
Central.
Mr ALLEN (Tauranga): After listening to the member for Auckland Central tonight I
could not help thinking that he is nothing more than an actor. I could not work out whether
he is an envious Casca or a dangerous Brutus; and I must say that I am ashamed to be in this
House with him.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That expression is barely parliamentary, and I ask the honour-
able member to withdraw it.


## p. 2029 (#485) ###########################################

9 August
2029
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement.
Mr ALLEN: I withdraw it, Mr Speaker, and say it is no wonder the member is being
challenged. I join the previous speaker in wishing the member for Grey Lynn well in the
selection for Auckland Central, because he does not indulge in personalities. I am referring
to the unjustified accusations by the overeducated member for Auckland Central when he
was referring to people who have served New Zealand in many spheres. Such accusations are
serious, because they are made, under privilege, about people who cannot reply in this
House. He cast slurs and made assertions which he cannot, or will not, sustain. The heart of
the matter is that he will not sustain his assertions. He is doing New Zealand an injustice by
improperly using the democratic system and the procedures of this House. It must be the act
of a child or a dangerous paranoid. He insulted the Minister of Trade and Industry by
referring to black being white or white being black, in a typically provocative statement.
When he spoke of a can of worms, he was again referring to the Minister of Trade and
Industry, who, we know, is a man of integrity. Where did the member for Auckland Central
get his intimate knowledge of the inside of a can of worms?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I will not permit this to go on. The member is being unduly
personal. I am almost certain that the reference to a can of worms was really a reference to
spaghetti, which I thought at the time was an acceptable piece of humour. The Minister of
Trade and Industry was not referred to as a can of worms. The member should proceed with
his speech instead of endeavouring to walk along the precipice with one and half feet over.
Mr ALLEN: Yes, Mr Speaker. I must have misunderstood, and shall finish off by saying
that the member's speech tonight reminded me of an old saying, that the general has seen a
hundred battles, but so has the army mule. We know where the generals sit-right on this
side of the House. The Labour Opposition can make up its own mind.
In recent years New Zealand's economic development has been strangled by social
welfare, consequential high taxes, and slow development due to price and profit controls,
with a consequent shortage of investment capital. I suggest that the Federation of Labour,
the Labour Party, and others should consider this situation very seriously, because, if
something is not done about it, jobs will be on the line. This is no laughing matter. That
something was started in last year's Budget and continued in this year's Budget, and,
although we still have some way to go, the results are beginning to show to the people the
correctness of the Government's policy. Obviously, members opposite do not agree, but
over there they live in a fool's paradise, calling for greater benefits on the one hand and
reduced taxes on the other. What New Zealand should do is reduce some of its handouts,
and move the incidence of taxation from direct personal taxation to consumer and indirect
taxation. Another approach that would put heart back into industry would be again to make
profit legal and acceptable. The Budget continues to promote industrial incentives and states
that, before any changes are made in this field, full consultations will be held with all parties
affected-I underline the words, "all parties". But the key to one of New Zealand's greatest
problems, illustrated so well last year, is that a Government should examine its own
expenditure and, where possible, restrain and reduce it. Last year the National Government
held the increase in Government expenditure to 2.24 percent. That had to be raised this
year, but evoked no criticism from the people, because it is the lowest it has been in 5 years.
We must always watch and keep Government expenditure at the lowest level possible, while
at the same time giving service to the people. I believe the commercial market must be
allowed to find its feet in a competitive atmosphere, not a cost-plus system that puts up
prices and lowers efficiency. If employment is to continue at today's high rate-and I do not
think there is very much true unemployment in New Zealand; there are some registered
unemployed, but I do not know how genuine they are-it can be based only on profit and
productivity.
Mr Lithgow: Some people do not know how to work.
Mr ALLEN: Yes, it is a shame that such people do not know how to work, and it is a fact
that wage and salary increases without greater productivity have been a major cause of
inflation.
Industries and job opportunities stem from ambition, efficiency, and profit. Socialism
destroys all three. It must be remembered that capitalism pays for social welfare; the taxes
from profits and earnings pay for the social benefits which the New Zealand people enjoy to
such a high degree. There is no magic wand. The country can receive its wages and salaries,
or its profits as well as its taxes, only from this source. On the broader scene, the key to our
future is in the field of exports. The basic problem is not that we do not have exports—we
certainly do but, in comparison with what we have received for our agricultural exports in
the last few years, the price we have had to pay for oil and capital goods has caused New


## p. 2030 (#486) ###########################################

2030
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Zealand's problems. Therefore, in the short-term manufacturers must switch more produc-
tion into exports, and New Zealand as a country must consume less. That means that we
must all consume less personally.
Also, incomes cannot be allowed to increase as rapidly as prices. That is a fact of
economic life, but until the people, including labour leaders and union leaders, wake up to
that we will not be able to get on with dealing with the problem. I admit that there is greater
potential, particularly in the export of processed primary products, but that is in the long
term. Exports, not import control, are the answer. We have heard a great deal from the
former Minister of Finance. He wants to control imports, but if he had his way he would stop
the flow of raw materials going into our industries as well as other components that we
require. That would cause massive unemployment, and it cannot be allowed. We have
sufficient controls now. That is one of the things that has put New Zealand down.
Tauranga has benefited by this year's Budget as well as last year's. In my electorate we
have local hydro schemes going ahead, old people's flats, industrial development, housing,
school buildings, and hospital buildings; and, of course, road transport has been helped by
moves proposed in the Budget. Perhaps more importantly, our community college is going
ahead on schedule despite the remarks made by the member for Eastern Maori. A site has
been acquired and site works have been scheduled to begin late in 1977. Sewage treatment is
going ahead. Everybody in Tauranga in the low-income bracket has benefited from the
moves proposed in last year's Budget and which have been underlined in this year's Budget.
However, there are still things that we need internally, such as a new Road Services depot,
more housing, better services for pensioners, and, perhaps more important, port develop-
ment, but I shall deal further with that later.
There is a subject which is just as serious as the economy, and that is transport. I
commend the efforts of the Minister of Transport in this Budget to solve the problems of one
of the major servicing industries in New Zealand. It probably startles some people when I
say that, but it should not if one looks at the geography of the country. With overseas trade
and internal marketing, it is obvious that the road, rail, air and ports systems should tie our
industries together, whether they be related to exports or imports, or the farm or factory.
Transport is essential to New Zealand and is one of its greatest problems and probably one
of its greatest challenges, because at the moment it is creating one of the country's greatest
costs. We must analyse what is happening in transport and what has happened over the past
decades. Obviously we have been running an adversary system among the railways, the
roadways, the airways, and the seaways. Each is fighting the other. I advocate competition,
but legislative protectionism must be very limited; and I sometimes even wonder about that.
However, this Budget provides the first step for many years towards resolving the situation.
Looking at transport as a whole, I have come to the conclusion that New Zealand
cannot afford to continue financing opposing capital and business development in transport
without using some common sense to find out where we are going. In other words, we must
rationalise and give the country the guidance it needs in this vital industry. First, we should
have one planned transport system which co-ordinates the modes and makes them
complementary as well as competitive. There has to be controlled planning, not interference
in management—I repeat, not interference in management. Someone has said, give it a
name. Well, we can call it a commission if you wish, or anything like that, but it has to be
responsible to the Minister and have the ability and the power to plan transport. The name is
not important, but positive control of transport is.
We need a body which recognises the needs of New Zealand and the needs of the users
of its transport, and consisting of people who can decide positively where the benefits lie for
the country as a whole. There would have to be a national transport plan, which it would be
charged to produce. This co-ordinating authority would need to be supported by advisory
committees from all sectors. Its aim should be to produce a flexible transport operation, and
not the patchwork political and parochial thing that we have at present. The railways, which
are required to operate efficiently, should be boosted. They need a clean up, literally and
administratively. Road operations can be made economic by eliminating empty running and
co-ordinating area services. I am pleased to see that this Budget commences to do some of
those things for both of those services.
Such a proposal would eliminate the New Zealand Ports Authority, in its present form,
and that would be one major advance. The principal task of that statutory body was to
formulate a ports plan for New Zealand. It has failed to fulfil that task, and now spends its
time interfering with the day-to-day operations of individual ports. There is no ports plan.
There has been a series of unconnected decisions made over the last 10 years which have cost


## p. 2031 (#487) ###########################################

9 August
2031
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
New Zealand dearly. That body's competence has long been questioned. It allows port
development in ports where there is little cargo, yet it stops development where there is
plenty. It questions the methods of an efficient port operation, and pushes other ports into
expensive development. When questioned, it hides behind socio-economic reports which are
full of opinion but lacking in fact. They are pure baloney, and costly baloney which New
Zealand cannot afford.
In my own area of the Bay of Plenty, Mt. Maunganui, and particularly Tauranga, we
have suffered continual setbacks created by this body, which has given us little co-operation
and virtually no explanation. It has prevented necessary machinery going on to the wharves
in the fastest developing export area in the country, yet in Auckland it is pushing the
development of a badly congested, inefficient terminal, where the cost is probably the
highest in the world because efficiency is at its lowest. Yet right alongside that very terminal
in Auckland is an underutilised private terminal which no one appears to know about. What
sort of planning is that? Who is really in control of the Ports Authority? That is a question
that should be put to the House tonight.
To justify all this a special subsidiary terminal is being built 21 miles away from the port
at a cost of about $15 million, but that terminal can handle only full container loads, while
Auckland, where congestion is causing problems, deals with less than full container loads,
which have to be unloaded on the wharf by labour from the wharf unions. Yet, as I have
said, the development at Wiri is to handle only full container loads, and will do little if
anything to stop the congestion in Auckland. There is another danger about Wiri, because
when wharf labour moves on to the development the cost of cargo handling will soar, and,
because of that, costs will soar in every factory, store, and works in the country. That is
something that the people just cannot afford.
Congestion in Auckland is so bad that 2 years ago a surcharge was put on on cargo going
through the port, and in 1 year the shippers had to pay an additional $35 million. That is
being repeated now. I should like to read from a report: "The Auckland container terminal
will enter a severe stage of congestion as from July of this year for at least 1 year, and
possibly 5, due to (1) the increased number of ships; (2) inadequate berthing facilities; (3)
the provision of a third crane has not been implemented fast enough; and (4) the number of
container handlings is disturbingly high for less than container loads." That is something I
mentioned before, and is what it is all about.
So, in complete sincerity, and thinking of the broad implications and of the cost to the
country, I make my plea for reconsideration of the port of Tauranga as New Zealand's No.1
export port, and approval of its full potential by proper development so that, in time,
congestion in Auckland can be relieved. Tauranga can take containers as soon as a crane is
put on the wharf; it has all the other facilities. It can handle containers and rail them to
Auckland more cheaply than they can be delivered over the wharf there. It is disgraceful that
the port of Tauranga is not able to work in that way. That happened only because the
transport industry works in an adversary situation, and with bad advice. There is a need for
co-ordination and complementary planning. So let us get some sanity back, and do
something about this. Finally, I have no personal knowledge of any port in the world that has
developed its container terminals in an old down-town area like Auckland's. Sydney,
London, New York, San Francisco, New Orleans, and all the rest, have got rid of those areas
and are running efficient ports. We could save money by learning from their experience.
I turn now to another section of the Budget-housing. We hear a lot of criticism from the
Opposition about what is being done and what is not being done in housing, yet the Labour
Government had the poorest record of any Government. It doubled the price of houses and
nearly doubled the price of sections, putting them out of people's reach, yet members
opposite complain about the National Government's policy. Let's face it—there is a housing
problem, and there always has been. Many families are badly housed and need good rental
accommodation, but the real problem is that all who want a new house cannot afford one.
That is why good rental accommodation is needed. Under the Labour Government, people
took out second and third mortgages, and they are now in danger of losing their homes. I am
very pleased that the National Government has said it will not let anyone be kicked out of a
house, but will enable finance to be rearranged. That was a sensible decision, forced upon
the Government by the Labour Government's shocking policies, which encouraged people
to buy houses without having any deposit or equity, and with second and third mortgages.
Now they cannot meet their commitments, but we will get them out of their difficulties.
I suggest that the Labour Government also caused a shortage of good rental accommo-
dation by its incessant attacks on landlords. It could be that some landlords are not very nice


## p. 2032 (#488) ###########################################

2032
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
people, but the result of the Labour Government's policy of attacking every landlord was
that many people withdrew from the investment market in rental housing and decided
against building rental accommodation. Now there is a huge accommodation gap, and
people have nowhere to live while they are saving money to buy a house. That is a typical
example of socialism-attack anyone who has a few bob, and ignore the real problems.
The Budget provides that, from 1 October 1977, single people can get loans from the
Housing Corporation. Money from savings banks has been freed, and the Post Office can
give second mortgages. Through those means, $73 million will be injected into housing in the
next few months. The salary eligibility for applicants for Housing Corporation loans has
been increased, and there is a concessionary interest rate of as little as 3 percent if a person's
weekly wage is below $85. Stamp duty on the purchase of first home and first sections has
been removed, finance has been offered for tied accommodation, and provision has been
made for tax rebates for the first $25 of rates. I do not think anything more could have been
done, in the present economic circumstances, to help people with housing.
There are many more things the Government would like to do, but it has gone as far as
it could, and I think there will be an easing on the strain of housing development in the very
near future. I must congratulate the Minister of Housing, and I include in my remarks the
previous Minister for at last resolving the problem in Welcome Bay, Tauranga, where 16
houses were built by the Labour Government, without any provision being made for
sewerage. Those houses stood unoccupied for 2 years, but under the present and previous
National Ministers of Housing a sensible solution has been arrived at, and within the next
few months people will be living in those houses, with proper servicing facilities. The
problem resulting from the erection of those houses was an indictment of the planning of
Labour Ministers of Housing, a waste of public money, and an embarrassment to the
authorities in Tauranga.
The Budget denies some people their fond hopes for more political hand-outs, but it will
get New Zealand back on its feet, and most people appreciate that fact. Our old people
know it, and are happy. They have been looked after by means of the superannuation
scheme. The young people, also, are getting a good deal. Now it is up to the workers to
produce-if the unions will let them, of course. Only by productivity on farms and in
factories will we achieve economic success. That is what the Budget is all about-common
sense, and the future of New Zealand. It is a Budget with its feet on the ground, and it will
help the people who have got their feet on the ground.
Mr WETERE (Western Maori): I am sure that people who listened to the member who
preceded me must have thought that even the Government has no confidence in its Budget.
Before the election, members opposite were spouting that a National Government would
have a one-mortgage housing policy, but that has not been achieved. In fact, it is getting
more difficult now to get second and third mortgages. The Waikato Times of 31 May has this
headline, "Industry embittered at Government inaction in building crisis". After the Budget
the Master Builders Federation said it was too late, too little, and ineffective. No more
people have been able to get houses from that day to this. Last Thursday the Minister of
Maori Affairs said in the House that there had been a record year, with 950 Maori houses
being provided. That is nowhere near the record set by the Labour Government in 1975,
with 1100 Maori houses. Under the present Government, 150 fewer houses have been made
available. If the National Government wants to put people into houses it must provide a
policy that will do just that.
I think the remarks made by the Leader of the Opposition when he opened the debate 2
weeks ago are worth repeating, because the contributions of Government speakers have
shown that they have no confidence in the Budget. This is what the Leader of the Opposition
had to say: "I want to say at the outset that this so-called Budget is little more than an abject
surrender to inflation. One cannot find on any of the 44 pages evidence of one single direct
action taken by the Minister of Finance to come to grips with what he himself has described
on many occasions as the most important problem the country faces. It would seem that the
author is now keen to accept inflation as his one and only ally. The Budget exposes the
complete frailty of the present Administration, and its failure to govern, and the magnitude
of the hoax it perpetrated when it told the electors in 1975 that it had an election policy. With
the global meanderings of the Minister of Finance, it would be fair to say he is a de facto
author."
I now ask members to cast their minds back to 29 January 1976 when the present
Minister of Maori Affairs took office. He said that Maori affairs was largely non-political and
that he would basically be carrying on where the former Minister had left off. Those were


## p. 2033 (#489) ###########################################

9 August
2033
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
fine words, but then he got off that hobby-horse, and pointed out to the National Party
conference last month that, although the four Maori electorates were represented, there
were no remits dealing with Maori affairs, and he asked the Young Nationals why that was
so. It is little wonder that the Government does not know what is happening in Maoridom.
The member for Wairarapa and the member for Awarua have given their Minister no
assistance, and have not accepted the offers of help from Maori members on this side. In
1975 Maori representation was returned 100 percent, and, as National might say, the
majorities were one away from a total swing. If the Government wants to understand our
people, the Minister and the members for Wairarapa and Awarua should seek our advice,
and should not get offside by making remarks that do not bring our two peoples together.
Instead, they have attacked Maori members of the Opposition for not doing their jobs. I
repeat, for the benefit of the member for Wairarapa, what the Minister said when he took
office.
Mr Couch: He said he would take over where Matt Rata left off.
Mr WETERE: That is right. That meant he would continue with the policy of the
Labour Government in housing, Maori land settlement, Maori welfare, and the provision of
finance for maraes. In his first year of office the vote was cut by 28 percent. The Government
talked about the rising crime rate for our people, yet provision for Maori welfare was cut by
25 percent. That shows that the Government is not trying to improve the welfare of my
people. Maori members have always represented and will continue to represent their people
to the best of their ability in the House, in the country, and anywhere in the world.
As was pointed out by the Leader of the Opposition the Budget is a nonentity which
came too late, gave too little and was not prepared to tackle the guts of the matter. Perhaps
the Government was stalling, and was looking for something to give us next year. The
Government will provide handouts next year because it is an election year. The people to
bear the brunt of the attack will be the ordinary working men. The Government is prepared
to bash the workers and flog the taxpayer as hard as it can. Five minutes after the Budget was
released the taxpayer was told of the increased charges and what they would mean to the
country. The rebate given to the workers was taken in one fell swoop. Tonight the Minister
of Justice said that the Government had assisted 90 000 people last year, but how many
people will it help this year? Has the Government assisted 90 000 people this year? Can the
Minister say exactly how many people the rebate will help? The rebate will go in increased
Post Office charges and interest rates, not to mention the increased prices for beer and
cigarettes. Those increases were to be expected.
The Government has not come to grips with the country's economic problems. When
the Labour Government was in power National members said that the Government had to
farm its way out of its problems. I am glad to say that the cockies are doing their utmost to do
just that. The Government has increased the interest rate by 1 percent, and reduced the
subsidy on fertiliser. The Government is back to its old skinny-sheep policy. The Deputy
Prime Minister is a great believer in that policy.
Mr Couch: You take advantage of the incentive on your farm.
Mr WETERE: The incentive scheme is the National Government's skinny-sheep
policy-nothing less, nothing more. The Government has reduced the fertiliser subsidy, the
most important part of the farming industry. Subsidies have been pushed down, but costs
have not come down. Freight charges are being increased, and with the other increased
charges the country cannot get any further ahead than it is now. Our trading patterns have
not changed or overboomed, as one might have expected. The recent tour of the Minister of
Overseas Trade did nothing for New Zealand.
Mr Bruce Barclay: He did not do as well as Joe Walding.
Mr WETERE: I agree with my colleague. Mr Walding's recent tour of the Arab states
did more for the country than the Minister of Oyerseas Trade's recent tour. It is about time
the Government got rid of a few more old cronies and got some more life in the place. The
Minister of Police is being honest and has decided to retire. The Ministers are not prepared
to do the job of governing the country. If the Labour Party had not had its conference in
May, and the National Party had not had its conference 2 weeks ago, Government members
would have had nothing to discuss in the Address in Reply debate or in the Budget debate.
They have attacked the Labour Party and its so-called mismanagement. The Government
has not done the job it set out to do, the job it told the people in 1975 it would do.
Last Thursday the Minister of Agriculture made some scathing remarks about the
agricultural industry. He spoke about land settlement, a subject in which I am particularly
interested. The Minister of Agriculture was the Minister of Lands until he went out of office
16 Vol. 412


## p. 2034 (#490) ###########################################

2034
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
in 1972. At that time he told the people that land settlement would cease for the next 7 years.
Last week he told the House that the Government would finance young farmers on to farms,
and would resettle farmers. He did not say that this could be done because of the measures
taken by the Labour Government to ensure that farmers could get on to farms. The
Government has announced that it will settle 55 farmers this year and next year, but it has
still not reached the Labour Government's target of 60 farmers. The Minister of Agriculture
should speak to his cobber upstairs; it is about time he got off his chuff and started building
up the land bank to ensure land settlement.
I am sure Federated Farmers has made representations to the Minister about land
settlement. I listened with interest when the Minister spoke on this subject, knowing full well
what he had said before he left the House in 1972. He has the audacity to tell the people that
the Government has returned to a policy of land settlement, but the country has regained
land settlement because of the policies of the Labour Government. Land settlement will
continue under Labour-we will give people a fair go. I have here a copy of the New
Zealand Herald of 28 March 1977, and in the farm news I read that the price of farms has
risen by $11,000.
Mr Lithgow: What sized farm?
Mr WETERE: We will get down to that shortly. There was a rise of $11,000 in 1 year,
from one March to the other, under the National Party, and yet Government members tell
the people that the Labour Government did nothing for the farmers and had no idea of what
an agricultural policy was. This lot has increased the price of farms by $11,000 overnight,
thus putting more pressure on people who want to go on to the land. Labour, as a party and
as a Government, will continue to get on with the job of land settlement, and will continue to
ensure that young farmers are given a fair go, as they were in the depression days. We did it
before, and we will do it again.
The subject of regional development has been bandied around the House. The
previous speaker made some scathing remarks about regional development, but we as a
Government were proud to introduce the regional development policy. We felt, and still
feel, that it would help to expand industries in areas where expansion is most needed. In
Wanganui, which is included in my constituency, the Labour Government did more for
regional development than a National Government ever did. I know that the Minister of
Fisheries, who is the member for King Country, has made representations to the Minister on
this matter, and I have too. It is interesting to read the figures for regional assistance to the
King Country from the inception of regional development. From July 1973 to June 1975
under the Labour Government, $196,074 from the Department of Trade and Industry and
$786,243 from the Development Finance Corporation was granted to the area. Between July
1975 and June 1976 the figures were $102,406 and $600,000. Between June 1976 and June
1977, under the National Government, the figures were $18,561 and $155,000. Those are the
figures for net assistance from the Government during the past 12 months. Regional
development was cut 50 percent in the Budget, and unless there is some immediate
restitution this will have a bad effect on the district, which will face more severe problems
than at present, even though we have had an inflation rate of 15 percent.
Regional development is of great concern not only to the King Country but to the whole
community. As a Government we tried to decentralise industry and stabilise the population,
thus halting the urban drift. When I entered the House in 1969 I said that all was not well,
particularly with the Maori people, because, as a result of the Hunn report, there was a drift
from the rural to the urban sector in the late 1950s. The drift still continues, even under the
National Government. Despite the measures the Government has tried to take, it has not
been able to resolve the problem. If the Minister of Maori Affairs wants some assistance we
will be only too happy to help him, because we understand the problems our people face.
Through lack of guidance and lack of finance they are unable to do what they want to do in a
new environment. The Budget has not dealt with the problems of the next 12 months. I hope
that the Minister of Finance will look closely at productive measures for wage earners rather
than bashing them as is being done, and as was suggested by the member for Tauranga.
Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua): When listening to the last speaker, I found it incredible to
think that he was talking about the Budget. He talked about farming, but talked in
generalities. I judge him and his Government, when it was in office, on deeds. I well
remember that their deeds encouraged farmers to kill nearly 2 000 000 ewe lambs, the
breeding stock of the country-1 800 000 ewe lambs extra, at $1 a lamb, just to make the
export figures look good. Not only did he speak at length on farming, but he also talked
about regional development. The regional development policy of the Labour Party was


## p. 2035 (#491) ###########################################

9 August
2035
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
noted for its lack of encouragement for resource-based industries. The National Govern-
ment has changed that policy, and lent money to companies that process wool, giving them
suspensory loans to encourage them to go into different industries, into areas of irrigation,
and into new industries that process the raw materials produced on our farms. When the
member was speaking, I thought perhaps he was a new aspirant for the Labour
leadership because of his volume, but not by the content of his speech.
The member for Auckland Central spoke at great length without saying very much at
all, but I was ashamed to see a member of the House undertake a personal attack on
somebody who cannot answer back. I invite him tomorrow morning to produce for the press
some evidence for what he said about the Prime Minister's Department. The Prime
Minister's Department is exposed to the people, and any member of the House and any
Minister can talk to members of the department. Its officers are experts in their
field-people like Len Bayliss and Jack McFaull are expert economists who are available to
help the Government and Parliament to operate efficiently. I wonder if the member for
Auckland Central, when he was talking about the Prime Minister's Department, remem-
bered somebody else's department that was secret until it was inadvertently exposed: the
"think tank" of the late Prime Minister, Norman Kirk, which came as a shock not only to the
then Prime Minister, but also to the members of the Government at the time, who postured
madly about the country, trying to say that they knew something about it when they knew
nothing about it.
I have had several discussions with the experts in the Prime Minister's Department on
economic matters, trying to get a grasp of what is going on in the country. The Opposition
has not produced one watertight argument about the Budget. The Prime Minister's Depart-
ment is public and available for all New Zealanders to use, to talk to, and to learn from. I
invite Opposition members, who are so keen to run it down, to go to the department and
find out if they know as much about our economy as do some members of the department.
The allegations that may well win the member the nomination for Auckland Central can only
be described as headline sensation-seeking. He demeans his own image, and the image of
parliamentarians. I hope that we will not see this sort of behaviour in the future.
> The Leader of the Opposition made a long speech, which included some comments
about three brothers. I note in tonight's Evening Post that a reporter by the name of Tony
Garnier has produced an article along the same lines, referring to the national superannua-
tion scheme. The three brothers were 56 years of age, 58 years of age, and 60 years of age,
drawing an average of $165.38 a week. The Leader of the Opposition said that the first
brother, the 56-year-old, the youngest one, had had a heart attack and was not able to work
again. He said that he went on to the sickness benefit, which at the time was $64 a
week-and, faithfully, the reporter printed $64 a week. I wonder why he does not check his
facts; the sickness benefit is $68.84 a week.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: I wonder why the honourable member doesn't say that the
figures were fictitious? Perhaps he should borrow my copy of Hansard.
Mr FALLOON: If the Leader of the Opposition would listen, he would know that the
actual sickness benefit is $68.84 a week. The Leader of the Opposition argued that this
brother was entitled to only $64 a week. The next brother, the 58-year-old, had an accident.
I noticed that the Leader of the Opposition did not claim credit for introducing the accident
compensation scheme, which gives this man 80 percent of his weekly wage-$135 a week,
which is taxable. The Leader of the Opposition missed out this important fact in his speech,
as did the reporter in tonight's Evening Post. The third brother was 60 years of age, and had
the courage and the audacity, if you like, to work—and good luck to him. He drew a total of
$230.77 a week, including his superannuation, because his wife was alive. With tax removed
that sum is brought back to $151.87, so the difference that the Leader of the Opposition
talked about is nowhere near as great after tax is taken off, which is the whole principle of
the superannuation scheme.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Is that from the Prime Minister's Department?
Mr FALLOON: It is a lot of money. It is not from the Prime Minister's Department.
Opposition members have a problem in that they cannot face facts, and they are distorting
the situation, because the superannuation scheme is taxable. Not one of them, after repeated
challenges from this side, has suggested that the Labour Government would remove the
national superannuation scheme, and replace it with its monstrosity. The total cost of the
national superannuation scheme will be $930 million this year, but after deducting tax, which
is estimated at $165 million, the net cost of the scheme will be $765 million. The estimated
annual cost of continuing the combined age benefit and universal superannuation would
16°


## p. 2036 (#492) ###########################################

2036
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
have been $600 million. It is interesting to note that with the levies on the employer and the
employee, Labour's scheme would have cost $168 million, and if that amount is added to the
$600 million, the total cost of superannuation this year would have been $768 million.
If Opposition members are still with me, they might remember that I said that the total
cost of national superannuation was $930 million, less tax of $165 million, giving a net total
of $765 million. Actually, the Government's scheme is costing the taxpayer $3 million less
than the Labour Government's scheme. Perhaps one salient point is that Labour's scheme
incorporated a levy on employers, which would have been passed on to the consumer and
the consumer price index. The National Government has not increased tax to pay for its
scheme. Far from it-tax has been reduced.
The member for Southern Maori claimed that the National Government was respons-
ible for the occurrence of nappy rash. I can sympathise with the member when she says that
the lower-income families have a problem. Instead of increasing the tax rates, as the Labour
Government did at the end of its term, the National Government has done something
constructive. The member spoke about the extra sales tax of $40 on clothes dryers. The
single-income family with young children would probably need a clothes dryer, although I do
not accept the member's premise that ultra violet light does not sanitise nappies more than a
clothes dryer. Like the best of us, I have washed nappies and consider that nappies dried in
the sun are far healthier than those dried in dryers.
The Budget has provided a reduction in tax. In October 1972, the average weekly wage
was $65. The tax on that amount was $10.09, or 15.5 percent. In October 1975, when the
Labour Government was dribbled out of office, the average weekly wage was $97.33, with
tax at $17.76, or 18.2 percent-an increase of 3 percent. So much for the person on the
average wage, of whom members opposite speak so highly. Although Labour members weep
crocodile tears now, the Labour Government did nothing for the person on the average
wage, but increase his tax rate. In October 1976, after the National Government-which also
introduced accident compensation and national superannuation—had made its first tax
concession for families with young children, the average weekly wage was $110.77, on which
the tax was $18.40, or 16.6 percent. That was a reduction in the first year. In the next year, at
April 1977, the wage level was $120.54. After the Budget the tax was down $13.72, or nearly
$5 less than in the previous year and $4 less in money terms than under Labour. As a
percentage of the weekly wage-and that is the critical factor-it was down from 18.2 under
Labour, to 11.4.
What would have happened had the Labour Government continued in office? It would
not have altered the tax rates, because it had the baby bonus to pay for, and the subsidies
would have been taken off, as was stated by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition before his
party went out of office. So tax rates would not have been reduced, and, without the
concessions given in the last two Budgets, people would have been paying 24.7 percent of
their wages in taxation if they were on the average wage of $120.54 a week. That figure
would have included $3.01 for the superannuation scheme. We have financed our superan-
nuation scheme with the lowest deficit in recent years, not by increasing taxation but by
reducing it. In fact, after 3 weeks' work, the concessions given to families with children
under five and with a single wage earner would have paid for the dryer.
The member for Wanganui spoke about facts. He complimented us on our education
policy, but rather doubted whether it would succeed. I invite him to come back in a year's
time to see what happens, because we believe in deeds, not just words. I support him in his
concern for education, particularly pre-school education, but I do not support him in his
previously exposed views on land nationalisation, and I rather suspect the forked tongue that
comes out when people like him talk about support to the farming industry. He also talked
about the Government not spending up to its estimates last year. I wonder whether the
people would prefer a Government that does not spend what it estimates, but reduces its
deficit before borrowing in 1 year by 50 percent, or a Government that overspends illegally
in its last year by $176 million. The people know that they have to pay back that money, and
the young people in particular would not thank Labour for that. Not only did the Labour
Government overspend in that year, but it had also overspent in the previous year by $1.20
million, 1.5 percent beyond its statutory limit. In 2 years it overspent by $296 million, yet in 1
year we managed to keep expenditure down by nearly $300 million.
Members opposite have talked about large tax increases under this Government, but in
its first year in office the Labour Government increased the tax take by 29.2 percent, in its
second year by 25.8 percent, and in its third year by 7.5 percent. When we came into office,
it was up by 23.2 percent, and this year an estimated 26.2 percent. When they point the


## p. 2037 (#493) ###########################################

9 August
2037
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
finger, and accuse other people of increasing tax rates excessively, they should look back at
the thumb pointing at them. One should bear in mind that our superannuation scheme is in
part responsible for the increase in tax; we are making sure that people over 60 years of age
have the incentive and security to work without having to face a means test.
The other little bit of posturing that we have seen from the Opposition has been the
quiet, snide remarks about the Prime Minister and his trips overseas. Would it have sent the
second or third in command, whoever that might have been, to the OECD, to the Prime
Ministers' conference or to the ASEAN conference? Are Labour Party members not even
aware of the importance of sending the top man when important decisions must be made? If
the Prime Minister of Japan had had to talk with the Deputy Leader of the Oppasisition as
the second in command of a Labour Government, would he have enjoyed that, instead of
talking with the Prime Minister, whoever he may have been? Indeed, I wonder if he would
have taken any notice of a man who had to report to his leader when he returned home.
Hon. T. F. Gill: This is a horror story. Don't upset the socialists.
Mr FALLOON: Well, we have sent our Prime Minister. He is our man, and he is the
man responsible for the Government of New Zealand. When he is overseas he is the man
who can answer all the questions; he does not have to return to consult with his leader before
making a decision. That is an important factor. The Prime Minister or the head of State of
any other country knows that he is dealing with the man at the top of the Government of
New Zealand, and not with the second or third in command.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: He's at the top of nothing then, isn't he?
Mr FALLOON: Opposition members continue to make snide remarks about the Prime
Minister, as they have done throughout the debate. In doing so they are obviously expressing
a great fear, because, although they never fail to take the opportunity of making a personal
attack on the Prime Minister, they do not have the courage to speak out clearly-and even
the member for Auckland Central did not do so tonight. He spoke in innuendo and of
rumours, without producing any facts to back them up.
Mr T. J. Young: A point of order. I draw attention to the fact that the member spoke
about another member of the House not having the courage to do something. I do not like
interrupting the honourable member as I know he is relatively new in the House, but I think
that is one point on which a very strict stand has been taken.
The ACTING SPEAKER (Mr Luxton): I am sure the member will withdraw that
statement.
Mr FALLOON: Yes, I withdraw. One of the most important features displayed during
recent tours by the Prime Minister has been his sound knowledge of what is happening in the
Third World countries. It is notable that members of the Labour Opposition have been
talking about growing sugar in the South Island, when they know full well that the
developing countries congratulated us because we did not start a sugar industry in competi-
tion with Fiji. Are they so insensitive to the needs of the Third World countries that they can
posture to gain votes? We have much to offer Third World countries in leadership, because
we also are a developing country-with, I add, in case Opposition members have forgotten
it, a very fortunate standard of living. The important point about untapped suggestions for
commodity agreements is that they must not distort the production of commodities through-
out the world and result in stockpiles being built up. It is notable that countries such as India,
Pakistan, and other Asian nations are now producing enough to feed themselves. It is very
important that we do not build up large stocks of commodities that will depress the markets
for those people still further. We need supplies of food in the world, but we must not distort
production.
Opposition members have spoken a great deal about transport, yet during their term in
office they would not buy railcars. I shall return to that topic later. They have also talked
about farm investment. They did not believe in farm investment when they were in office. I
well remember the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, after the farm income levels dropped
by 40 percent, saying to the farmers, "Stop whingeing and get on with the job." I wonder if
he would make that statement to his own supporters. I doubt it very much. At that time he
used a convenient whipping boy, and he lost the confidence of the farmers from then on, as
did his Government.
The Budget is deflationary, because it reduces the Government deficit before borrow-
ing. The internal deficit has been reduced from 10 percent of the gross national product in
1975 to 2.9 percent this year, an important factor, because if you borrow more than you
spend you must create or borrow money to repay the loans. If production does not increase
at the same time, a higher price level is created for each type of goods. That is the


## p. 2038 (#494) ###########################################

2038
9 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
inflationary legacy we are battling at present.
Members opposite said that the economy is stagnating, but the Department of Statistics,
an independent source, said of the economy in its May report: "But, up till the end of May,
the volume of exports increased in the manufacturing sector by 34 percent"-the volume,
not just the price. It is the volume that matters. The Opposition fell into a trap of talking
about the great boom of 1972, quite forgetting that the export volume was increasing only
marginally. That is why the Labour Government pushed the panic button the next year, and
tried to keep the farmers exporting by buying up their lambs for export. Forestry exports
have increased by 38 percent in volume, and agricultural exports by 15 percent in volume.
Stock numbers have again reached a total of 100 000 000. If stock numbers had been kept at
the same level, and the lambs kept on the farms for breeding, the volume increase in
agricultural products would have been much greater. The Third World's $42 billion deficit
with industrial nations will be a great problem in the future if the position is not rectified. It is
notable that since the OPEC cartel began, Third World debts have increased to $180 billion,
a matter of deep concern to all world leaders.
What is the Budget doing for the young man who wants to become a farmer? He can go
into a cadet scheme sponsored by the Government and administered by Federated Farmers.
He can go to Massey or Lincoln Universities, and take an agricultural course that will help
him to cope with modern management problems in the farming industry. He can take part in
a savings scheme, instituted by the Government last year, that gives him tax-free savings. He
can build up a $5,000 nest egg from inflation-proof bonds. The Labour Opposition must wish
very much that it had instituted the scheme proposed by the member for Piako in a private
member's Bill during the term of the Labour Government. The young farmer can lease a
property under the new criteria instituted by the Government for the Rural Bank. He can
buy an uneconomic property, and it will not count as his first farm. He can take a tax-free
suspensory loan when, as a sharemilker, he sells his dairy herd, thus enabling him to use the
capital from the extra stock he sells to go into a smaller property and build up an asset, and
not pay tax on the profit from selling the stock. Under the last Budget, he received a 1
percent stamp duty exemption; and this represents a considerable amount. He can buy a
farm with 15 percent equity, something he could not do under the Labour Government.
Even more important, we have increased the supply of money to the farming industry by
enabling older farmers to give vendor mortgages to young farmers and claim half the interest
free of tax in their hands.
One of the important concessions in the Budget is the emphasis on country education,
and I hope that people in the country areas will avail themselves of the mobile pre-school
units that have been promised in the Budget. This is something I feel very strongly about.
The member for Wanganui said that they would be paid for by the people; that is not correct.
Some will be paid for by volunteers, but the Government intends the money to come out of
the Education vote.
Let us consider the position of the manager or shepherd who wants to make a career of
working on a property, but does not necessarily want to own it. He can take part in savings
schemes. During the election campaign and in my maiden speech I emphasised the need for
a farm worker to be able to retire with dignity and pride. I also emphasised his need to buy a
house for his retirement, and I am glad to see provision in the Budget for a farm worker, at
the age of 45 years, to take out a Housing Corporation loan and still live in the country. That
is important for the people living in rural areas. The Budget contains other concessions for
home building for rural workers. I hope we will see once again the village concept building
up. Farmers can now borrow money from the Rural Bank to buy a house in a local area; they
no longer have to move back to the town to take advantage of such a loan.
There is a great need to maintain a substantial flow of money into farming and allied
industries. For instance, it is extremely important that we make the meat industry economic,
and the 10 percent suspensory loan provision in the Budget virtually guarantees to the meat
industry that the Government will see it right. I note the comments made by Opposition
members about overseas ownership. Important factors for the industry in the Budget are
profit sharing, tax-free payments for employees, and shift-work depreciation
allowances-which will help my electorate, where many industries, particularly the woollen
mills, are going on to shift work. We have the energy savings sales tax deductions, and the
new depreciation levels for shift work. It is noticeable that the Opposition has not produced
any substantive argument to refute the provisions in the Budget. I feel strongly that in
opposing the Budget the Opposition is condemned from ever becoming the Government.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time is


## p. 2039 (#495) ###########################################

9 August
2039
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
exhausted.
Mr HARRISON (Hawke's Bay): New Zealand is faced with four problems-inflation,
balance of payments, excessive Government spending, and unemployment. The Govern-
ment, in approaching this Budget, had the difficult task of maintaining a balance. It would
have been easy to have cured any one of the four problems, but the effect on the others could
have been catastrophic. It would have been possible to have corrected the balance of
payments in a dramatic way by cutting back on imports, but that would inevitably have
stopped the flow of raw materials and components, which would have led to the closing of
factories, the slowing down of production lines, and a massive increase in unemployment. To
a Government that eschews unemployment as a weapon of economic recovery, the social
and human results of such moves would have been even more unacceptable than the
economic results. A sudden cure for inflation could be found if the Government was
prepared to stop people spending by greatly increasing the rates of taxation, direct or
indirect. That would have destroyed initiative and incentive, which are necessary if New
Zealand is to come out of its economic difficulties strong enough to face the future with some
measure of confidence.
The Budget aims to achieve a limited number of important objectives. The first of these
is that New Zealand must produce more of the goods that the rest of the world is prepared to
buy, and prepared to buy at prices that will allow us to import what we need to sustain our
present way of life. We not only must farm our way out of our difficulties, but also work our
way out. Although the fertiliser subsidy has been reduced by $2.50 a tonne, which means a
reduction in income of $250 for a farmer applying 100 tonnes, the spreading bounty is
maintained, and the transport subsidy is improved for farmers living further from the works.
This shift in emphasis will probably mean no less fertiliser is spread in total, but more will be
spread on the hills, whence I believe comes our hope of greatest increase in production. The
livestock incentive scheme is estimated already to have resulted in an increase of 2 400 000
more stock units, and this has been improved in the Budget. I feel confident about even
greater increases in livestock in the years ahead. That will mean more meat and wool for
export, but as well as more beef and lamb it will mean more venison, with the extension of
the nil-value scheme to cover the valuation of farmed deer. I applaud this, although I am not
in the business of deer farming myself.
I am very pleased that the Government has shown its confidence in the future of farming
by putting more emphasis on the settlement of young farmers. The Department of Lands
and Survey will settle 55 young farmers this current year, and I believe we will see even more
young farmers settled this year than the 85 settled last year under the special settlement
scheme funded by the Rural Banking and Finance Corporation. This will be possible because
increased finance, that will allow more young men to settle on first farms of their own choice
and of their own finding, has been made available in the Budget.
One more weed will qualify under the noxious plants control scheme in each region.
The farmers in Wairoa will applaud that, because they have a problem with blackberry in the
surrounding hills, and have asked me to make representations about it. Hawke's Bay
farmers might find it profitable to have barley grass included in the list, because, as members
will know, barley grass has a detrimental effect on the carcasses and pelts of lambs.
The assistance given to the meat freezing industry by way of depreciation allowances on
new and altered buildings, and the estimated $12 million in grants for new plant and
machinery, will help not only the companies, but also the farmers. The assistance will enable
the companies to upgrade their works to comply with the meat hygiene regulations if New
Zealand is to continue to sell its meat in Europe and the United Kingdom. The assistance
will also mean that the farmers will not have to find the money through increased killing
charges.
I applaud the housing schemes for farm workers and farm employees. Farm workers
have made representations to me, and I have made representations to the present and the
former Minister of Housing.
We can expect increased production from our fisheries. What a brilliant stroke of
regional development it was to allow the 40 percent suspensory loans for ships built in New
Zealand shipyards. Manufacturing will continue to contribute to our export drive through
such new proposals as the shift-work depreciation allowance, profit sharing, and industry
development loans. Forestry encouragement loans will also help.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 2040 (#496) ###########################################

2040
10 August
Notion of Motion-Admissibility
WEDNESDAY, 10 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
NOTICE OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That
this House notes with concern the statement made by the Minister of State Services in this
morning's New Zealand Herald that the 3.5 percent wage offer made by the Government to
the CSSO has been leaked to the press, and, as in my view this leak has taken the sting out of
the PSA conference now meeting and to my knowledge neither the CSSO nor the State
services have ever leaked wage negotiations, the House informs the Minister that he should
begin his inquiries into the leak by looking at the Prime Minister's Department.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I
respectfully ask you to look at the notice of motion on two grounds-first, at the allusion that
the information was leaked to the press and at the manner in which it was implied that this
was a quotation. I suggest that is incorrect. Secondly, would you care to look at the reference
to the possible involvement of the Prime Minister's Department, because I can tell the
House that there was none?
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): The Standing Orders require notices of motion to be verified
in some way. While the member has sought to verify certain aspects of the earlier part of his
notice of motion—and I have no means of disputing that-the essence of his notice is, first,
that information was leaked, and, secondly, an allegation that it was leaked from a certain
Government department. The member should be required to verify that part or withdraw it.
I draw to your attention the fact that this is not the first time in the last couple of days that
this member has made in the House an allegation of this nature which has been completely
unsubstantiated.
Mr SPEAKER: I strongly object to conversations across the floor of the House when I
am about to rule on a point of order, and when I am on my feet. Although I do not enthuse
over this jab and gibe type of notice of motion which makes a travesty of the whole notice of
motion procedure-and it happens from both sides continually-the latter part is admissible
in that it does not contravene the requirement that statements of fact shall be able to be
authenticated. The notice states "and as in my view this leak has taken the sting out of the
PSA conference”. The member is entitled to his view whether it is right or not. It continues:
"and to my knowledge"-I interpret that as meaning "to the best of my knowledge” or “as
far as I know"-"neither the CSSO nor the State services have ever leaked wage negotia-
tions". The member is entitled to say to the best of his knowledge.
However, the opening words state, "this House notes with concern the statement made
by the Minister of State Services in this morning's New Zealand Herald that the 3.5 percent
wage offer made by the Government to the CSSO has been leaked to the press". I did not
seek authentication of that statement because I imagined it would not have been made unless
there was some ground for it. As the point has been raised I will look further at this notice of
motion. The suggestion has been made that the source of the leak, if there was a leak, has
been indicated in the notice of motion. That is not so. The notice of motion alleges that there
was a leak in the press expressing certain views, and asks that the alleged leak be
investigated, with a start being made with the Prime Minister's Department. I will have a
further look at the notice of motion in view of the question raised as to the correctness of the
first portion of it.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Import Deposit Scheme
1. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Customs: In view of the
Government's professed concern for small businesses, can he explain why importers
received such short notice of the extension of the import deposit scheme, and can he give an
assurance that he will make his decision much sooner when the next review is due in 6
months' time?


## p. 2041 (#497) ###########################################

10 August
2041
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): When the scheme was initiated in
January 1976 the Minister of Finance stated that the scheme "will be kept under review in
the light of the need for import restraint". Subsequently, the scheme has been reviewed on
three occasions, one of which resulted in the reduction of a number of goods subject to the
payment of deposit effective from 30 July 1976. There has never been any advance
commitment that the scheme will necessarily be terminated on any specified date. There are
obvious advantages in deferring reviews to permit maximum information to be available on
import trends.
Mr MacDonell: As the scheme has been ineffective in controlling the flow of imports,
why does the Government persist with a scheme that is causing serious liquidity problems for
small businesses?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I do not agree with the member's opinion about the
effectiveness of the import deposit scheme, and I would suggest that he should consider the
consequences of releasing a sizeable amount of purchasing power as a result of lifting the
deposit from a category of goods that it was considered appropriate should come within the
import deposit scheme.
Mr MacDonell: How much money has the scheme saved the country in the last 6
months?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: If I had been asked that question today I would have had that
information.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 28
2. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he tell the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 28 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee, which states: "That the department should encourage
beneficiaries to have domestic purposes benefits paid into savings or budget accounts and
that consideration be given to authorising the commission to insist on this method of
payment in certain cases."?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): Payment of a benefit directly to a
savings or bank account is currently available only in respect of family benefit and national
superannuation. However, it is proposed to extend this facility to other beneficiaries,
including domestic purposes beneficiaries, as soon as possible. The Social Security (Monet-
ary Benefits) Regulations have recently been amended to give the Social Security Commis-
sion authority to pay a benefit in whatever manner it considers appropriate in individual
cases.
Mr Downie: Can the Minister give any indication of the number of cheques that go
astray each year, or are apparently lost in the mail, which must be re-issued?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, I cannot give the numbers without some reference to
statistics, but some benefits do go astray each year. I believe that the only way to prevent this
is to have a benefit paid directly into a bank account. This system applies at the moment to
family benefit and national superannuation, and it is hoped that from October this year this
will be extended to all benefits.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that the difficulties encountered with the
electronic data processing equipment are delaying the implementation of the Government's
policy to pay benefits direct to bank accounts, and can the Minister indicate what steps are
being taken to overcome these problems?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It is a mammoth task to put all benefits on to computers.
However, it is being done very satisfactorily, and I am not aware of any impediments that are
delaying the scheme.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Car Pools-Insurance Contracts
3. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Transport: In view of his
interest in car pools, is he making recommendations to the Minister in Charge of the State
Insurance Office and the various motor insurance offices about clauses in insurance contracts
which inhibit or prevent such arrangements?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): As long as any car pooling
scheme is based on the following three principles it is not envisaged that clauses in insurance


## p. 2042 (#498) ###########################################

2042
10 August
Oral Answers to Questions
contracts for private automobiles would inhibit or prevent any car pooling arrangements: (1)
that the scheme be run on a cost-sharing basis; (2) that those involved do not make a profit;
and (3) that only commuters are involved. I am informed that these principles were set out in
the Transport Amendment (Motor Spirits Conservation) Regulations 1973 specifically for
the purpose of ensuring that those people wanting to establish a car pooling arrangement
were not prevented from doing so by clauses in the insurance contracts of their cars. These
regulations also exempted drivers and vehicles involved in a car pooling scheme from various
legislative constraints applying to passenger service licensing, including regulation 4 of the
Motor Vehicle Indemnity Surcharge Regulations 1974. This ensures that the status of the
vehicle would not be impaired by its involvement in a car pooling scheme, as long as the
scheme is run on the three principles mentioned earlier. I am also informed that no further
legislation is needed to ensure that clauses in the insurance contracts do not prevent or
inhibit any car pooling scheme.
Mr McLay: Can the Minister confirm that at an early stage in the Auckland Harbour
Bridge Authority's investigation into car pooling the authority had lengthy discussions with
his department on the matters raised in the question and that the matter was agreed upon
and resolved in terms of the amendment he has just read to the House?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I would assume that is correct, although I do not think I
was the Minister at that time. However, it is obvious that the former Minister of Transport
did put that into the legislation after the Labour Government came into office.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Little Barrier Island-Extermination of Wild Cats
4. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Lands: Can he indicate what
long-term programme has been adopted for the control and/or extermination of wild cats on
Little Barrier Island?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
of Lands. Over the years several attempts have been made to eradicate the cats on Little
Barrier Island, but these have never been completely successful. In 1975 the wildlife service
of the Department of Internal Affairs, on behalf of the Hauraki Gulf Maritime Park Board,
commenced an intensive 4-to 5-year cat eradication programme. To date there has been a
noticeable decline in cat numbers as a result of this continuing programme, which is now at
about the halfway stage.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is it not a fact that the Government itself is embarking on wild-
catting on the mainland?
area.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I regret that it might have extended to the member's own
Dr Shearer: Can the Minister inform the House about the success or otherwise of feline
enteritis for the control of wild cats, particularly on the mainland?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The supplementary information does not extend to the
mainland. The programme on Little Barrier Island includes the laying of poison, trapping,
hunting by dogs, and inoculation with cat enteritis. I hope the latter does not affect the
mainland.
Mr Blanchfield: With the knowledge that so many wild-cat schemes get into action
swiftly, will the Minister ensure that the purge on these bird predators is started not in the
long-term but immediately?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: I respect the member's knowledge and the interest he has in
his area, and I will pass that request on to the Minister.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Contractors
5. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Works and Development: In
view of the Deputy Prime Minister's assurance to the Contractors Federation at Wanganui
when he was in Opposition that contractors need have no fear of the future under a National
Government, when does the Government propose to live up to this assurance?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): The Government is
anxious to achieve a more stable situation in regard to construction than that which occurred
under the previous Administration, when the country became overcommitted. The worst
thing that the Government could do would be to set up another boom-and-bust cycle, which


## p. 2043 (#499) ###########################################

10 August
2043
Oral Answers to Questions
is the basic cause of the present problems. The Government's measures to keep construction
works within the resources available and encourage diversification into other areas is in the
long-term interests of the industry.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: Would the Minister agree that having a third of the contractor's
equipment lying idle at present is an underutilisation of the facilities available?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: This morning I spoke to the Contractors Federation in New
Plymouth and it fully supported a private enterprise Government and accepted the fact that
restraints had been put on the department similar to those applied to the contractors. I was
able to give them a modest assurance that in the future they would have sufficient work to
meet their demands.
Mr Comber: Can the Minister confirm that the Deputy Prime Minister's observations
made in Opposition were made before it became obvious to the incoming Government that
the former Labour Government had provided a deficit before borrowing on those projec-
tions of $1,200 million, and that that figure may have risen to $1,400 million if action had not
been taken?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that fact, and I gave that information to the
contractors this morning, showing that the Government had effected a substantial downturn
in the amount of deficit before borrowing, and that this would give them a stable economy
and a stable basis for their future activities.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Despite the answers given by the Minister, does he now
acknowledge that the assurance given before the election that the contractors need have no
fear in the event of a National Government being elected means that there has been a
repudiation of an election promise?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I met with the contractors this morning, and I sensed no fear
whatsoever among them.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Post Office-Effect of Subsidy Payments
6. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What was the effect
on the Post Office administration of financing its operations by subsidy payments during the
period of the last Labour Government?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): During the period charges were frozen
the Post Office incurred losses totalling $65.7 million for the 3 years. These losses were met
by the payment of subsidies at the taxpayer's expense. The massive subsidy payments had
the effect of distorting the demand for Post Office services, because charges were held at
unrealistically low levels. The unexpectedly high demand for services not only placed a
greater burden on available resources but also disrupted the Post Office's planning proces-
ses. Furthermore, I am assured by my department that management staff morale suffers
when personnel know they are working for an organisation that is not genuinely paying its
way.
Mr Wellington: Has that procedure impeded the capital works programme, especially in
view of the increasingly high costs of imported material?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: There is no question that that period of subsidy payments was
harmful to the Post Office administration in virtually every respect.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Social Welfare-Services Provided by Voluntary Organisations
7. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What
steps is his department prepared to take to extend salary subsidies to part-time field officers
of voluntary organisations providing supportive and counselling services in the community?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): The Government is aware of the
valuable work being done by voluntary organisations providing supportive and counselling
services. The question of subsidising the salaries of field officers engaged in this work must,
however, be considered in the light of other social welfare policies and commitment on
Government expenditure. It is noted that requests from various voluntary organisations for
similar payments were rejected by the Labour Government in 1974 and 1975.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that the Labour Government made provision in
the Disabled Persons Community Welfare Act for the extension of salary subsidies, and is it
not a fact that the Government promised to implement that policy?


## p. 2044 (#500) ###########################################

2044
10 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I am not aware that any provision was made by the Labour
Government for the implementation of the Disabled Persons Community Welfare Act. The
Act was implemented early last year by the National Government, and financial provision
has been made for a number of the provisions in the Act.
Mr Downie: What salary subsidy payments are being made by the Department of Social
Welfare?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The only salary subsidies paid by the department at present are a
75 percent salary subsidy to approved organisations employing supervisory staff in trade
training, sheltered workshops, or day centres for the disabled, and a 75 percent salary
subsidy for branch administrators of the New Zealand Society for the Intellectually Handi-
capped.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that the provisions of the Disabled Persons
Community Welfare Act being implemented were authorised by the Labour Government?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: When the National Government went out of office in 1972 a draft
Bill was ready for the House. It was not until the last week of Parliament in 1975 that
urgency was taken at 1.30 a.m. so that the Labour Government could introduce the Bill. The
third reading of the Bill was taken on the evening before Parliament recessed for the 1975
election. The Act was implemented by the National Government last year.
Mr Lithgow: Is the Minister aware of the difficulty faced by the New Zealand Council of
Christian Social Services in meeting the kind of expense referred to in the question, and, if
so, what is he prepared to do to assist the council?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I have had discussions with the council, and a survey is at present
being undertaken to find ways and means of assisting the council, which does outstanding
work in the welfare field.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Heroin-Disposal of Confiscated Drugs
8. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Police: As the Minister of
Health has indicated that the Department of Health does not receive confiscated heroin
from the Police Department, can he indicate how confiscated heroin is disposed of and what
supervision there is to ensure that all confiscated heroin is disposed of?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police): When heroin is seized by the Police, it
is immediately delivered to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research for
analysis. It is then held in strict security until the court hearings and appeals, if any, in
respect of the particular case are completed. It is finally disposed of by being incinerated in
the presence of the public health pharmacist. On occasions some small quantities are
retained by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research for reference purposes,
and other small quantities are used for training narcotic detector dogs. Strict controls and
supervision exist to ensure that all the narcotic is safely disposed of, and, where it is
necessary to retain small quantities for the described purposes, maximum security is
ensured.
Dr Shearer: Can the Minister say what percentage of the total is regarded as pure
heroin?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I am afraid that I cannot answer that question off the cuff.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Machinery Tax on Contracting Equipment
9. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Customs: Is any consideration being
given to the removal of the machinery tax as applying to contracting equipment?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): No consideration is being given to
extending the provisions for exemption from sales tax of contracting equipment beyond
those that already exist in respect of machinery used in coal mining, agriculture, and
forestry.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Waitakere Hospital-Stage 2
10. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Health: When will a start be
made on stage 2 of Waitakere Hospital, west Auckland?


## p. 2045 (#501) ###########################################

10 August
2045
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): Provision has been made in the works
programme for planning to start this financial year. Commencement of construction will
depend on the availability of financial and construction resources with due regard to the East
Tamaki, Papakura, and other committed works of the Auckland Hospital Board.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Will the type of facility to be made available in stage 2 of Waitakere
Hospital be dependent on recommendations from the Auckland Hospital Board?
Hon. T. F. GILL: It will be based on the planning by the Auckland Hospital Board,
which will have to plan to make sure that the facilities suit the requirements of the
community. The planning will, of course, be subject to scrutiny by the Government before
financial allocations are made.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Children's Boards
11. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is he satisfied with the
way in which children's boards are operating, and does he have any plans to alter the work of
these boards?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): Yes, I am satisfied with the way
children's boards are operating, and I have no plans to revise the work of these boards.
Mr Lange: Is it the Minister's experience that difficulties can arise through the
conflicting interests of the Police youth aid officers and the social workers of the Department
of Social Welfare in the determination of cases before children's boards?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: As far as I know, the boards operate particularly well. Each
board consists of a representative from the Department of Social Welfare, an officer of the
Police Department, an officer of the State services appointed by the Secretary of Maori
Affairs, and a person selected from a panel of local representatives appointed by the
Minister of Social Welfare. The various boards around the country have, perhaps, developed
their own characteristics, but all in all they work particularly well.
Mr Bell: How many cases are handled by the children's boards each year, and what age
groups predominantly are represented among the children?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: My notes tell me that last year 3808 cases were handled and that
more than 80 percent involved children aged between 10 and 13 years.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Farm Prices, Whangarei County
12. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister in Charge of the Valuation Depart-
ment: What was the increase in farm prices in the Whangarei County between 1972 and
1975?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister
in Charge of the Valuation Department. Figures compiled by the Valuation Department
show that the average price of an economic farm unit sold in 1972 was $22,848, and in 1975 it
was $52,600, an increase of 130.22 percent.
Mr Bruce Barclay: How many sales in the Whangarei County was this price increase
based on?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The supplementary information gives 179 for 1972, and 65
sales in 1975.
Mr Bell: How many sales took place in 1976, and what was the average price for those
sales?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: In 1976 there were 108 sales. The average price was $51,044,
a decrease of 2.96 percent on the previous year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
District Roads Council No. 8-Cost of Meetings
13. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Will he
make public the formal explanation demanded by the member for Hamilton West of the
alleged $30,000 cost of paper work for three council meetings of the No. 8 District Roads
Council?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): The National Roads Board


## p. 2046 (#502) ###########################################

2046
10 August
Oral Answers to Questions
has called for a report from the chairman of the roads council concerned, and until such time
as the report is received and considered by the board I am unable to advise the member of
the explanation requested.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Blood Tests-Cost
14. Mr LUXTON (Piako), on behalf of Mr BIRCH (Franklin), asked the Minister of
Health: What is the average cost of a blood test taken in a public hospital for (a) a New
Zealander for whom the cost is met by the State, and (b) an overseas visitor who meets the
cost himself?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): An accurate assessment of the average cost of
blood tests in a public hospital has never been attempted, as there are so many departments
involved and so many variables to be taken into account. An approximate guide may be
obtained from the average cost of $1.42 for diagnostic tests of all types carried out by private
pathology laboratories. The costs for both categories of people mentioned in the question
would be the same, based on the costs assessed by the hospital board concerned.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Divorce Statistics
15. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How does he
reconcile his claim that the divorce rate is now one in three with the findings of David Swain
of Waikato University sociology department as reported in Zealandia, the Catholic news-
paper, of 24 July 1977, that "the divorce rate in this country has scarcely varied in the last 30
years"?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): At no stage have I claimed that the
divorce rate is now one in three. On a number of occasions I have referred to the alarming
increase in the number of people receiving domestic purposes benefits, and in this context I
have quoted the report of the recent Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee, which
states: "Consistent with this trend are increases in separation and divorce rates (in the latter
case 1 divorce per 12 marriages in 1965, 1 per 5 in 1975, and an expected 1 for 3 in 1976), a
drop in the marriage rate, and a probably related increase in unmarried motherhood."
Mr Marshall: Is the Minister aware of the findings of Mr Swain and Mr James O'Neill,
of Waikato University, which establish that the calculations by the review committee are
inaccurate, and if so would he make a statement indicating the inaccuracy of the report?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I am aware of the statement by these gentlemen. What
matters is what one wants to find out from statistics. They claim that there were 24 534
marriages in 1975, and that about 1 in 10 broke down. The hard, cold facts are that last year
more than 19 000 women applied for the domestic purposes benefit because of breakdown of
marriages. Do those people who criticise that report say that 14 000 women with their
children should starve? They will be cared for under a National Government, irrespective of
the unrelated claims made by a sociologist at Waikato University.
Mr Marshall: Can I take it that the Minister does not accept the criticism made of that
report, that the report is inaccurate?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I do not accept that criticism; and I regret that I was not given
equal time on television to refute the charges made by those people.
Mr Bell: Was it likely that the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee knew
about Mr Swain's work at Waikato University, and, if so, did it have reference to his work?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee had access
to all long-term research of the Department of Social Welfare, the Department of Statistics,
all other Government departments, and the university. Submissions were also received from
46 organisations and about 100 people.
Mr Lange: Would the Minister clarify whether more than 19 000 or more than 14 000
married women applied for a domestic purposes benefit last year?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Last year more than 19 000 married women applied. The figure
of 14 000 was the difference between what the sociologist claimed for the number of
marriage breakdowns and the number who actually applied.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2047 (#503) ###########################################

10 August
2047
Oral Answers to Questions
Telephone Exchange, Howick
16. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Postmaster-General: Could he indicate when
the temporary exchange to be located at Howick is expected to come into operation?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): It is proposed to bring the temporary
exchange at Howick into service by the end of the year.
Mr Downie: How many people at present on the waiting list will be catered for by this
temporary exchange?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: The exchange has 1000 lines. As at 30 June, 958 applicants
were waiting for service; so it covers all those on the existing waiting list, plus a few more. I
do not want people to get the impression that these telephones will be provided immediately,
as installation matters have to be attended to, and this takes time, but over a period of
months these people will get that service.
Mr Rogers: Has the Postmaster-General taken into consideration the point that, due to
increased postal and telephone charges, some elderly people will now have to cancel their
telephones, which will make more telephone lines available?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: If the member for Onehunga can show me one elderly person
who has to cancel the service as a result of those increased charges, I will immediately take
the matter up with the Minister of Social Welfare.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Twizel-Site and Accommodation Allowance
17. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of State Services: Why has the
Public Service Association application to have site and accommodation allowance for Twizel
payable to all occupational classes, including teachers, traffic officers, and dental nurses,
required to reside within the confines of the project area, been declined?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services): The application by the Public Service
Association to the State Services Tribunal' to have the site and accommodation allowances
paid to all State employees at Twizel was declined by the tribunal in April of this year. This
was properly a matter for the tribunal to adjudicate on, and I have no authority to change
this decision. Site and accommodation allowances are paid only to those employees who are
direclty involved in work on projects. The only exception has been that Post Office
employees at Twizel have been paid site allowance by an earlier decision of the tribunal,
which has continued in force.
Mr Marshall: Given the fact that the Minister said that he has no right to interfere with
the decision, is any appeal on this matter available to members of the Public Service
Association?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Normally, the first point is discussion between the PSA and the
SSC, and then, in the case of a dispute, the appeal lies with the tribunal. What I read is an
appeal decision.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 24
18. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he advise the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 24 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee: "That steps be taken as soon as possible to recruit more social
workers and to give special attention in their training to dealing with strained marriage
situations and the initial and follow-up work with domestic purposes beneficiaries."?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): The Government has already taken
steps to implement this recommendation. I should make it clear, however, that the
department's social workers will not be engaged in direct marriage guidance counselling.
About 70 appropriately experienced benefits staff are currently being selected so that the
new interviewing procedures and follow-up work with domestic purposes beneficiaries can
be brought into effect at an early date. In addition, steps are now being taken to advertise
more than 30 new social worker positions throughout the country to provide social work
back-up services. Staff selected will be given appropriate training in the particular respon-
sibilities involved.
Mr Downie: Will this be one area where it will be possible to make use of the voluntary
services to which the Minister referred earlier?


## p. 2048 (#504) ###########################################

2048
10 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. H. J. WALKER: In the long term there will perhaps be a lot of scope here for the
use of volunteer social workers, but in the initial stages the follow-up work will be done by
qualified social workers, and the marriage guidance part of this project will be carried out by
the Marriage Guidance Council.
Mr Lange: By how many would the establishment suggested by the review committee
for social workers fall short, given that the Minister filled the 30 vacancies for social workers
that are at present being advertised?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: We have authority to appoint as many people as are necessary to
fully implement the recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Commit-
tee. About 120 vacancies have been advertised. The 30 positions are for this section of the
task, and no doubt other vacancies will be filled later.
Dr Shearer: Is increased staffing and assistance likely for the budgeting advisory
committee throughout the country, and in particular in Hamilton?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: This budgetary advisory service is an important issue. I hope that
a new appointment will be created for someone to supervise voluntary social work through-
out the country, such as is operating in Napier at present and to a lesser degree in
Christchurch. If this can be done, voluntary social workers will be used extensively for
budgetary advisory work.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Contracting Industry
19. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru), on behalf of Hon. R. L. BAILEY
(Heretaunga), asked the Minister of Works and Development: In view of the state of the
contracting industry in New Zealand, what proposals does he have that will restore it to a
reasonable state of efficiency, thus helping the economy generally?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: (Minister of Works and Development): The honourable member
is implying that the contracting industry is inefficient. This is not the message that I am
getting from the contractors. On the contrary, they claim to be very efficient. Some do,
however, feel that there is less of the traditional type of work available-for example, road
construction and housing development. It is necessary to encourage the industry to diversify
into other areas, such as water supply, sewerage, stormwater drainage, and so on. The
recent measures in the Budget to lift the restrictions on local authority loans for these works
should open up new areas for the contracting industry. Additional funds have also been
allocated for rural water supply schemes. I would point out that, in spite of the current
financial difficulties, the Government has been able to maintain the overall level of the
works programme.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Taking the point in the Minister's reply that the contracting
industry is to be encouraged to diversify its activities, is he aware that approximately one-
third of the contractors' capital equipment is idle at present because of a general recession;
and does he believe that the proposition outlined by him will rectify the position and get the
equipment working again?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I am fully confident that when the construction season begins
again we will find that the machinery will be gainfully employed. It is inappropriate to use a
lot of the equipment during the winter, and the contractors, in their wisdom, will not do so.
However, the works I have mentioned will provide gainful employment for the contractors
in the forthcoming summer season.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Northland Hospital Board-Finance for Development
20. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru), on behalf of Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei), asked the
Minister of Health: How much money has been granted to the Northland Hospital Board for
further development since the National Government took office?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The following finance has been allocated to the
Northland Hospital Board for development during the term of the present Government.
During the 1976-77 year, a sum of $567,000 was provided to enable phase II of the
commissioning of the new ward and administration block at the Northland base hospital to
get under way. This was in addition to a grant for basic growth of $471,000 to allow the board
to further develop its existing services. In the 1977-78 year, a further $333,000 has been
provided for the board to complete the commissioning of the ward and administration block.


## p. 2049 (#505) ###########################################

10 August
2049
Discussion of Motions
In addition, the Northland Hospital Board, along with other boards, has been asked to
submit proposals for expanding its community care services. However, requests from boards
are still coming in, and the Northland board's allocation will be decided when the Govern-
ment is in a position to consider all proposals.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
DISCUSSION OF MOTIONS
Violent Demonstrations
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): I move, That this House is appalled at the violent and objection-
able behaviour of a section of the group outside of the National Party conference on Friday, 22
July at Dunedin and notes with no surprise that Labour Party officials were prominent in the
organisation leading up to the demonstration and calls on the Labour Party through its
president, who is a front-bench member of the Labour caucus, to publicly name and require the
resignation of those members of his party who participated in this disgraceful affair so
uncharacteristic of New Zealand society.
This is the first opportunity I have had since that conference to raise some of the issues
involved. The motion was moved to give the president of the Labour Party an opportunity to
take some positive action to remove from his party the elements that caused the violent
demonstration. I want to make it quite clear that demonstrations have, and will continue to
have, an acceptable place in New Zealand. Frequently in New Zealand's history, people
have been prepared to have their say in a peaceful yet demonstrative way. My objection to
the demonstration at Dunedin is because of the premeditated nature of the violence and that
the fact that there was to be violence was known to the organisations taking part. Group
violence is uncharacteristic of New Zealand society.
In last night's Evening Post a local magistrate, Mr M. F. Hobbs, S.M., said that the
ordinary public was entitled to go about its business without fear of violence or antagonism.
The persons to whom those remarks were directed were members of a Wellington gang,
some of whom were imprisoned as a result of their physical harassment of the public.
Although the demonstration in Dunedin might not have been as bad, in principle it involved
the same sort of action-premeditated gang violence-which was known to the Labour Party
leaders. There is evidence, which I will table, that the demonstration was pre-planned not
only as a demonstration but also as a violent one, and that the Labour Party knew that its
members would be involved. Although the notice of motion gave the president of the
Labour Party an opportunity to publicly say that the persons concerned should resign from
the party, there has been no public disclaimer.
Hon. Members: There has.
Mr BIRCH: As there has been no open move to remove that element from the Labour
Party I will name the members involved so that the president of the party can take the
necessary action. On the Monday before the conference it was made clear in the Otago Daily
Times that the protest was to take place and that there was to be physical harassment. The
statement alluded to the fact that there would be a physical blocking of National Party
members attending the conference. It was reported in the Otago Daily Times that: "When
the word is given, a group of protesters plan to block the entrance of the town hall to prevent
National Party members from going inside." The same article stated that Labour Party
representatives were expected to unofficially attend the demonstration. Although the word
"unofficially" is used, the article in itself should have been enough to alert a responsible
organisation to take some action. What did the president of the Labour Party do? Nothing.
Although he made noises afterwards, he had an opportunity 4 days before the conference to
step in and do something, as he did at a later demonstration in Hamilton planned by the
August Front. By his silence the president was prepared to condone the action in Dunedin.
The first question that needs to be asked is, why, in light of the threats, did the
responsible leaders of not only the Labour Party but also the other organisations involved
not step in and do something? The leaders of two of the organisations should have shown
some leadership and taken action to remove this sort of violent blight from New Zealand
society. Why did the Otago University Students Association not tell its members to keep
away from the demonstration, and refuse to provide financial support for the July Front? I
believe the university students' association is a responsible organisation, and to an extent is
excused because it is a younger and less experienced organisation than the Labour Party.
However, the association showed poor judgment in financially supporting the July Front,
and in allowing its members to participate in what was nothing but political thuggery.


## p. 2050 (#506) ###########################################

2050
10 August
Discussion of Motions
But the students were not the innovators or the instigators. Prominent members of the
Labour Party stimulated the activity. It became known subsequently that young Labour
activists in Hamilton intended to repeat that type of political thuggery outside the LJ Lounge
when the Prime Minister was in that city. On that occasion the Labour Party showed a
greater degree of responsibility; its leaders said the party would not officially be part of the
August Front. If the Labour Party had had the foresight and the leadership it could have
stepped in and avoided the disgraceful physically violent demonstration outside the Dunedin
town hall.
I need to justify some aspects of what I have said. My information is that the July Front
attended a meeting of the executive of the Otago University Students Association; as a
result, the association donated $60 towards the expenses of organising the demonstration,
the total cost of which was said to be about $100. Subsequently, the Vice-President of the
Otago University Students Association, a fellow by the name of D. J. McCartney, wrote to
the Otago Daily Times on 28 July saying: "This association does not support the use of
violence at a protest of any kind, and did not support, either financially or organisationally,
the use of violence at the convention last week." That is a disclaimer that finance was given
for the use of violence, but it is a rather tenuous excuse because $60 was donated, and there
was violence at the demonstration. Whether or not the Otago University Students Associa-
tion meant there to be violence, there was violence, and the association did contribute
financially. The announcement in the Otago Daily Times 4 days before the conference gave
adequate notice to the association to step in at that time and say that it would withdraw
financial support if there was to be violence. It should have withdrawn its financial and moral
support. If the Otago University Students Association should have done that, how much
more should the Labour Party have moved in?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): We have commented before on the sort of things we
debate and discuss in the House, to its benefit or otherwise. This is one of those occasions
when a motion is designed to attempt to show something that is just not so. The member for
Franklin tried to convince the House and the country that the Labour Party was associated
with thuggery or the throwing of punches. We will have no part of that, because we do not
believe in it. I have contacted Mr MacChesney, a well respected middle-aged Scot with a
great reputation who is chairman of the Labour Party's regional council, and he has not only
assured me but he has publicly stated that the Labour Party had nothing whatever to do with
the demonstration. The chairman of the branch that was accused in the House of being part
of it, and as having had a meeting on that night, is prepared to show the member for
Dunedin North the minutes. The branch did not meet that night. It met on 29 June, not on
12 July. Those are the facts.
Mr Talbot: Are you sure they didn't fiddle the books?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: A remark like that could come only from the member for
South Canterbury. He will always suggest corruption, which is the weakest argument of all.
Gossip and character assassination are the weapons of the politically weak, not the politically
strong. They should have no part to play in this Chamber. The motion is designed to get at
unnamed people. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We cannot have a flow of invective from one source, or from
several sources at the same time.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: The motion did not name anyone except the president of the
Labour Party. The Minister of Broadcasting said he saw people hitting women. We will have
no part of that. I asked him immediately if he knew who the people were, and he said he did
not. How does he know they were Labour Party people? The mover of the motion spent
most of his time half praising and half criticising the students' association. I have heard no
names. I told the Minister of Broadcasting that if he could name any Labour Party people
who were brawling with women, or anybody else, we would call them to account. National
students were at that demonstration, as were Values Party people. I did not know that
before, but I have found out since.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Name the National Party people.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I can name them if necessary, but I do not propose to throw
their names about. It was the National Party, not the Labour Party, that was going to name
people. Notices about the demonstration were in Dunedin shops. We do not believe in that
type of demonstration. No matter what the provocation, the Prime Minister, or any other
citizen, should be able to move freely up and down the country without hindrance. The
Government has moved a motion suggesting that Labour Party members are thugs, but it has
failed to name those thugs. It has failed to produce an atom of evidence that Labour Party


## p. 2051 (#507) ###########################################

10 August
2051
Discussion of Motions
members were involved. If the House is to be used as a vehicle for accusations of that kind,
there must be a counter attack. A member of the House has admitted that at that same
demonstration he punched somebody. He may well have been provoked-it does not take
much to provoke him. If we are to have this kind of thing argued back and forth across the
House, we have to be just to both sides. If someone throws a flour bomb from one side, and
somebody throws a punch from the other side, punishment and recrimination ought to apply
equally.
Hon. G. F. Gair: Who offers the provocation?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Those who provoke must, of course, share some of the
responsibility. It is shameful that the House, on such meagre evidence, is this afternoon
spending the better part of half an hour debating the motion when there is no evidence to
show that a Labour Party member was concerned. There is evidence to show that the Labour
Party was not officially part of the demonstration. The member for Hamilton East, showing
a great sense of responsibility, drew to my attention an article in the Waikato Times which
stated that there was to be an August Front. He named a person who, he said, was a member
of the Labour Party. I had never heard of that person. That is not surprising, but I
communicated immediately with Labour Party officials in Hamilton and learned that they
had previously passed a resolution that they would in no way be associated with that kind of
hindrance to any New Zealand citizen, even the Prime Minister.
If one opposes the views expressed by the Prime Minister-and increasing numbers of
people do the proper way for them to protest is through the ballot box. That is the only way
in which we believe hindrance should be exercised. I thank the member for Hamilton East
for his actions. Indeed, he acted like a responsible member of Parliament in using the
telephone and not a fist. He rang me and told me his fears. I consider that preventive action
was to his credit. I am not in a position to know everything that happens in all areas, but his
advice gave me the oppoftunity of checking with my officials. I say again that, even before he
reported to me, the officials of the organisation had carried a resolution that no member of
the Hamilton branch would be associated with any demonstration or hindrance to any citizen
of this nation, but the action of the member for Hamilton East was a much more responsible
approach to the kind of problem that is increasingly confronting the world. Certainly it was
much more responsible than the introduction of a motion without fundamental evidence.
The former method enables political opponents, who after all are other New Zealanders, to
deal properly with the problems of society's confrontations.
No one can say that the Government of the day is a peaceful one, in that it verbally
assails many people. Nevertheless members of the House should protect and defend each
other in the manner adopted by the member for Hamilton East. I commend him for his
action, despite the fact that it turned out to be unnecessary in the circumstances because of
the decision already taken, and I place my appreciation on record. I summarise the debate
by saying: first, responsible citizens, as leaders of the Labour Party in Dunedin, assure me
that the Labour Party was in no way responsible for the demonstration and its members were
not involved in it; secondly, I assure the House that the Labour Party is opposed even to
verbal violence against the individual, and believes in changing society only by use of the
ballot box; thirdly, I am certain it is not the purpose of the House to debate motions for
which there is little evidence to support the propositions therein.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): The member for Roskill, as President of
the Labour Party, is to be pitied rather than scorned on this matter. I am sure most of us
agree with his action withdrawing the Labour Party from the August Front's proposed
demonstration at Hamilton.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Where are these names?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: He withdrew and spoke against the Labour Party being
involved in violent demonstrations. As a result-and we should acknowledge this-the
demonstration at Hamilton was not of the nature of the one at Dunedin. It is a great pity that
the New Zealand Labour Party, since becoming the New Zealand socialist party, or the
democratic socialist party as it now wants to be known, has not learned that all around the
world in recent years the word "socialism" has become synonymous with violence and the
threat of violence. It is not enough for the president of the Labour Party to try to excuse his
officials in Dunedin by saying they were not there. A five-column headline appeared in the
Otago Daily Times on the Monday of the week in which the National Party's conference was
held and, as the member for Franklin said, the article under that headline made it clear that
representatives of the Labour Party were also expected to attend unofficially, as called for by
the socialist July Front for that Friday night. In the regional offices of the Labour Party in


## p. 2052 (#508) ###########################################

2052
10 August
Discussion of Motions
Dunedin were notices calling on people to rally at 6.30 on the Friday night of 22 July, and on
those notices were Mickey Mouse motifs.
The president of the Labour Party has asked for the names of members of the Labour
Party, or of those associated with the Labour Party, who attended that vicious demonstra-
tion; he wants names that can be corroborated and authenticated. Jeremy Waldron,
university lecturer, editor of the Dunedin Central Labour Party newsletter and a delegate to
a recent Labour Party conference, was one. He is a socialist and one of the six organisers of
the July Front. Allan McLean, a member of the Otago regional council of the Labour Party,
a former chairman of the party's youth branch, a former candidate on the Labour ticket in
the local body elections in 1974, and appointed by the third Labour Government to the State
House Allocation Committee-then being 17 years of age-and not reappointed, was
another. He was involved closely with the Labour Party organisation in Dunedin Central in
1975.
Dorothy Horsman a school teacher and chairman of the Mornington branch of the
Dunedin Central Labour Party, and Norman L. Gough, a taxi driver, a member of the
Labour Party, and a frequent writer of letters in recent times, were also present. Mr Gough
sought the Labour Party nomination for Dunedin North in 1975 and is reported to be
interested in seeking the nomination again for 1978. The president of the Labour Party
wanted names. I have given him some names, and I am assured that there is supporting
evidence for the identification of those Labour Party members who were involved in the July
Front organisation and that bit of political thuggery at the National Party conference on the
Friday night which had been advertised with a five-column headline in the Dunedin paper on
the previous Monday morning. The Labour Party officials, including the president of the
party, their leader, did nothing about it.
I was glad to hear the leader of the Labour Party express in the House his concern about
the character of the demonstration. It was ugly; it looked ugly, and it sounded ugly. Any
political demonstration where men spit on other New Zealanders is an ugly demonstration. I
know that one woman who was trying to get into the conference hall was spat on by someone
in the demonstration, which included members of the New Zealand Labour Party. There is
no place in New Zealand politics for either violence or the threat of violence; yet it is a fact
that today socialism is a synonym for violence and the threat of violence. Well, at least the
president of the Labour Party has stated that he warned the Labour Party against taking part
in the August Front's demonstration in Hamilton when the member for Hamilton East drew
his attention to it. As a result, that demonstration was not of the same ugly character as the
socialist demonstration at the National Party conference in Dunedin.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): The Labour Party stands for the right of people to demonstrate
and express their concern peacefully-even those National Party members who showed their
discontent with the Administration when they attended the meeting and demonstration in
Dunedin. Certainly there were members of the National Party in that crowd. In the past few
weeks members of the House have been given several little lessons about conviction without
evidence. I wonder if I would be regarded as irresponsible if I suggested that the National
Party was implicated in the collapse of Securitibank, or that it was implicated in certain
aspects of the JBL affair. Certainly National Party members were very heavily involved in
the direction and administration of those companies. If I would be regarded as less than
responsible in doing that, then surely it is less than responsible for Government members to
start lumbering the Labour Party with a certain demonstration held recently outside the
town hall in Dunedin.
As the Minister of Justice said, people associated with the Labour Party were among the
crowd, but they were there unofficially. There was no endorsement of that demonstration by
the Labour Party any more than might be construed from the fact that certain department
stores had an advertisement in their windows. Anyone who knows anything about the
background of that demonstration knows that there were people of all political persuasions,
including members of the National Party, in the group. The Labour Party does not stand for
and dissociates itself from those who would engage in violence at a political demonstration.
That has no part in our political philosophy. There might be some people who are moved by
the sort of confrontation that developed there to throw eggs and flour, but they would not be
members of the Labour Party. How many members of our party have eggs to throw at
Cabinet Ministers? I suggest that you should look closer to home for the sort of people who
would be heaving eggs around.
The reality is that the Labour Party did not endorse, does not now endorse, and was
never involved as a party in the affairs that took place outside the Dunedin Town Hall, and


## p. 2053 (#509) ###########################################

10 August
2053
Discussion of Motions
no one knows that better than the member for Dunedin North, who spoke of a meeting of
the Castle Street branch taking place on 12 July to plan this business of the July Front. He
knows that the branch did not meet on 12 July. Its last meeting was held on 29 June, so that
effort has gone wrong, and he knows it.
Richard Walls: Thirty people attended the meeting.
Mr LANGE: Where the member gets his 30 people from is a matter of considerable
speculation. Today the National Party is engaged in a great deal of cant because no one was
more grateful for that demonstration than were members opposite. Had it not been for the
demonstration the National Party conference would have dragged on in funereal, sombre
tones until the 3 days were up. That demonstration fell into the party's hands for political
purposes. No one who seeks to advance the political fortunes of the Labour Party would
arrange for a punchup with the Prime Minister, who would then capitalise on that
demonstration and get the Senior Government Whip to weep crocodile tears in the House.
The Labour Party is committed to the right of people in New Zealand to express their views
peacefully. It is not committed to convicting people on bad evidence, or on no evidence at
all. It is not committed to the suggestion that some people have Labour Party responsibility
in organising a piece of political vandalism—because that is the consequence when this sort
of thing happens. I suggest that members who have taken such an acute interest in these
proceedings know in their hearts how they rejoiced when they happened. It is all very well
coming to the House with expressions of regret, but they know how they enjoyed it, how
their conference was lifted, and the mileage made out of it for political purposes.
Mr Allen: You like women being spat on, do you?
Mr LANGE: Some of them who reflect will find it embarrassing that this debate took
place.
The time allowed for discussion of the motion having expired, the motion lapsed.
Migration Loss
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): I move, That this House notes with grave concern the
continuing worsening trend in the net loss of permanent and long-term residents as revealed in
the Department of Statistics' release of 24 July last and the Prime Minister's unconcern at the
gravity of this situation as expressed at the National Party conference, and requests the
Government to reverse its social and economic policies which are at the root of this serious loss.
Unfortunately, when this subject has been raised in the House from time to time the
Government has not detailed any population policy. At present we are faced with not only a
heavy net migration loss, but also serious economic problems that will follow in its wake.
New Zealand cannot sit back idly and let the situation drift, even if the Prime Minister did
tell the National Party that he was unconcerned. The migration loss is the greatest in New
Zealand's history. Net emigration last year was such as to throw out of perspective the whole
immigration pattern of the last 20 years. We are losing highly skilled people needed in New
Zealand to advance our economic welfare. On that economic basis we have founded our own
social development. The Minister will know that a number of employer groups have been
expressing concern about the Government's immigration policies because they are unable to
find skilled tradesmen to replace those leaving New Zealand.
Mr Lambert: Oh, go on now.
Mr T. J. YOUNG: Well, I wonder whether the member for Western Hutt read an issue
of the Printers Journal 2 or 3 months ago in which the editorial criticised the Government for
its nonsensical policy on immigration, pointed out the urgent need for skilled tradesmen to
be replaced from abroad, and said that the industry could not get such replacements. It is all
very well for the Minister to tell them, as he told the Manufacturers Federation, "Come
along and interview me in my office." Manufacturers are concerned that very soon New
Zealand's net migration loss for 12 months could be as high as 25 000. In the 12 months
ended April 1977 the net loss was 21 000. We should argue the case on the basis of net losses,
not just on total departures from New Zealand. Total departures should be measured against
total arrivals to give us the true picture, which concerns the Opposition and a large sector of
private industry and which should be of even greater concern to the Government.
On 28 July, Sir Frank Holmes, Chairman of the New Zealand Planning Council, in
speaking to the Waikato-Bay of Plenty Manufacturers Association, said: "There is a
concealed and growing unemployment problem represented by lack of opportunities for
many who might wish to work but are unemployed or unwilling to register as unemployed,
and, even more importantly, by a large and growing net emigration from this country.


## p. 2054 (#510) ###########################################

2054
10 August
Discussion of Motions
Prolongation of this trend, or generally depressed investment, is obviously not in the
country's long-run interests." The problem to which Sir Frank Holmes drew attention has
also been emphasised in the reports of certain company chairmen. I do not have in front of
me the report of the chairman of Tolley Industries, but he too emphasised this problem, and
the president of the Manufacturers Association has expressed concern that tradesmen on
whose training New Zealand has spent thousands and thousands of dollars are moving
overseas because of a lack of proper social and economic planning here. Their exodus will
have very serious effects on our way of life.
The Christchurch Press of 11 May contains a report emanating from the conference of
the Pacific Basin Economic Community. A Mr Wodtke, a senior vice-president of a Swiss
banking corporation that provides loan moneys to New Zealand stated: "It will become
increasingly clear that any Government guarantee whether from a developed or developing
country, is not universally accepted as a security. The criterion for good Government loans
will increasingly be how effective the borrowed funds are employed to create productive new
assets. The New Zealand Government's policy of limiting net immigration to a gain of 5000
people a year has misfired. The brakes are being applied at a time of reduced personal
expectation." As I said, that man was speaking on behalf of a corporation which has been a
source of New Zealand's overseas borrowing. I know of no other instance where a principal
of a corporation that has lent money to this country has spoken so directly against the
Government's policy.
A 5000 net immigration may be one thing, but at the moment we are facing a net loss of
21 000 people. The greatest loss occurs in the 20 to 29 years age group and the number is the
greatest in the history of the country. The Department of Statistics' press release 77/118
mentions on page 2 the embarrassing situation of the movements of this age group when it
states: "The greatest proportion of movements of permanent and long-term migrants
continues to occur in the age groups 20 to 29. For the March year 1977 this group
represented 40.9 percent of the permanent and long-term arrivals in this country." The net
loss last year of people in the professional, technical, and related trades, amounted to 2639,
the highest outflow in New Zealand's history. We lost 954 sales workers; for clerical workers
the figure was 3259; for transport and communications workers it was 796; and for
craftsmen, production and process workers, and labourers there was a net loss of 6034. For
services and sport and recreation the net loss amounted to 1012. A recent report of the
National Business Review drew attention to the net loss of 21 000 for the 12 months ended
April.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable gentleman, but he has exhausted
his speaking time.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration): I am amazed that the Opposition member
who claims to be the spokesman on immigration should use as a reference such a doubtful
source as the National Business Review. Two or 3 weeks ago that paper produced a leader
which contained so much nonsense that it was sent the correct information; but it did not
bother to correct its earlier statement. This week it is using the same tactics that anybody
who loses an argument uses and is making personal attacks on the Minister. I have had
discussions on immigration in Switzerland. The man who criticised the Government for its
5000 limit would not have dared to say such a thing in his own country, which has a very
much tighter control on immigration than has New Zealand.
I have here an extract from the Waikato Times stating, "Gill accused of juggling
migration count". The writer claimed that a senior officer of the Department of Statistics in
Dunedin had stated that the tactics I used in presenting the long-and short-term figures were
wrong and that the alleged juggling with the figures did not paint the correct picture. The
Government Statistician wrote to the editor of the Waikato Times stating that he was
surprised and concerned at the statement in that paper. The head of the department stated
that the officer was not a senior statistician, but a junior statistician who did not know exactly
what he was replying to. He also stated: "I would be pleased if you would correct the wrong
impression. As Government Statistician I dissociate myself from such statements as
appeared in that article. They are not correct. It is quite legitimate and reasonable to
associate statistics of long-term visitors and permanent movements with shortstay move-
ments as, for example, the net sets of totals inwards and outwards. External migration
movements contribute to changes in population and numbers of population structures, and
this is a meaningful analysis." The figures I have given to the National Business Review and
anybody else who was interested are accurate. According to the Government Statistician,
they are a meaningful analysis.


## p. 2055 (#511) ###########################################

10 August
2055
Discussion of Motions
They show that the statement by the member opposite of an outflow of 21 000 this year
is erroneous. That outflow would be closer to 12 000. If the member deals with monthly
statistics in that fashion he will keep on getting the wrong answer. The best way to deal with
such statistics is to take them in 5-year steps, and that has been the way it has always been
done to give a proper spread. For the 5 years from 1971 to 1975 the net loss amounted to
34 000, but if you include 1977 and take the years 1973 to 1977 the net loss is only 33 000. It is
absolute nonsense for the member to claim that 21 000 left the country. In 1974, discounting
returning New Zealanders, 39 988 immigrants came to this country. That is what placed the
strain on the country's resources and that is what this Government has done away with.
The member for Hutt spoke about the sad state of affairs because New Zealanders were
leaving. What does he suggest the Government does about it? We all know that every year a
certain number of people go overseas, but we also know that every year many who said that
they were going for a long term or permanently come back within the year. That pattern has
not changed very much; it has been consistent for many years. New Zealanders like to go
overseas to spend a year or more away. I do not know whether they change their minds or
whether they do not like conditions overseas. It could be that they had no intention of
staying away but said they had so they would be allowed to take more money with them. The
cold, hard fact is that New Zealanders are continuing to go. No matter how much the Deputy
Leader of the Opposition or the Opposition spokesman on immigration might dislike it, this
Government will do nothing to stop individuals exercising their right to go overseas. Even
the member for Timaru would have stopped the footballers from going, but when they elect
as individuals to go overseas this Government will do nothing to stop them.
The Department of Education recently advertised in England for secondary school
teachers. Already, 1900 inquiries have been received. A press release stating that the Navy
wanted a few people to help man HMNZS Waikato resulted in 400 inquiries although no
advertisement had been placed. A firm in Auckland placed a small advertisement for
tradesmen in a London newspaper and received 2000 replies. The number of Australians
who came here last year exceeded the number who left, and they continue to come here
because the Government places no controls over them.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: A bit more incentive for New Zealanders to stay and work here
would be better.
Hon. T. F. GILL: A bit more incentive for New Zealanders to stay and work here! The
Opposition does not want incentives for New Zealanders to stay; it wants New Zealanders to
be required to stay. I have invited the Manufacturers Association and anybody else with any
problems to tell me if they are having difficulties recruiting skilled tradesmen in New
Zealand. If a case is made those people will be allowed to bring tradesmen in. No such case
has been made. At the time of the election the Labour Government said that a National
Government would not be able to reduce the net inflow to 5000. In 1974 that figure was
39 888, and in 1975 it was 33 000. The net inflow in 1977 is down to 1800, so the Government
has done what the Opposition said it could not do. The Leader of the Opposition said that
every New Zealander leaving the country had cost us $38,000. In 1974, 28 000 New
Zealanders left; at $38,000 each that is $1,101,000,000 worth of New Zealanders. The
Leader of the Opposition would probably like to stop them, but unfortunately he cannot. He
is not the Government and never will be, and this Government will not stop them, but will
try to keep avenues open to allow young New Zealanders to travel abroad.
The Labour Governments in New Zealand and Australia set up a working party to find
ways and means of stopping people travelling between the two countries. When I became
Minister I went to Australia and was delighted to reach agreement that such a concept would
be absolute nonsense. Another interesting thing I discovered on that visit was that our graph
of movements showed that New Zealanders left here during the 1968-69 recession, but their
graph was quite different; it showed that an upsurge of work in Broken Hill and Perth was
the cause.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): I rise to ask whether the Minister would be prepared to table
the letter that he referred to from the Government Statistician, in which the Government
Statistician rejects the information already circulated in press releases.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration): I am pleased to do that.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): We have just heard from the Minister of Immigration
the very interesting revelation that the Government has established a working party to try to
stop the flow of people between New Zealand and Australia, and vice versa. This raises the
very pertinent question of whether the Government proposes to place restrictions on the
right of New Zealanders to travel between New Zealand and Australia. I recall the very


## p. 2056 (#512) ###########################################

2056
10 August
Discussion of Motions
bitter criticism from the Opposition of the day when it was suggested that some control be
imposed to prevent undesirable people crossing the Tasman. Now we have had the
revelation from the Minister that the Government, which has prided itself that it would not
restrict New Zealanders' right to travel anywhere, has set up a special working party with the
intention of restricting that free movement.
The fact that the Minister of Immigration seems to get a lot of satisfaction from his
ability to attract teachers, tradesmen, and craftsmen from overseas to replace the good New
Zealanders who are leaving underlines the folly of his immigration policy. Surely the best
immigrants are New Zealanders themselves? The Government has a responsibility to create
conditions that will prevent a mass exodus of our people. It is to be hoped that this motion
will jolt the Government out of its complacency and apathy, and stop it trying to confuse the
issue with all sorts of excuses to cover up what is happening.
The Minister quoted the source and the breakdown of his figures, and said he had the
right figures, and told us what figures were acceptable and what were not. People can only
accept the traditional source of figures-the Government Statistician. Is it any wonder that
the Government Statistician himself has had to clarify the position following the many
misleading interpretations of the statistics made by the Government. I can do no better than
quote a statement by Mr Harris, the Government Statistician in the Evening Post of 16 July.
He said he could not accept that the migration statistics released clearly established how
many New Zealanders were leaving from or returning to this country. He also said that in
every way it was possible to classify New Zealanders from information included on the
arrival and departure cards-by birth, by nationality, and by country of residence. The
department provided timely, clear, and accurate migration information to users of the
statistics.
Those are the statistics commentators have used down through the years, and for the
Minister to try to cloud the issue does not do either himself or his department much good.
Mr Harris said that migration statistics established precisely and clearly the movement of
people who declared their nationality as "New Zealand". The statistics were available at
quarterly intervals, and just in case there is any confusion or doubt about the figures in the
motion I will give the figures quoted by the Government Statistician.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration): Mr Deputy Speaker, I have been
misrepresented. The previous speaker claimed that I had said that the Government had set
up a working party to look at New Zealanders travelling to Australia. What I said was that
the previous Labour Government and the Australian Labour Government had set up a
working party, and I was able to have it wrapped up.
Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury): I am pleased that the Minister of Immigration has
put the record straight. It is typical of the Opposition to twist the facts about the
Government's immigration policy. The Opposition has tried to tell people that the Govern-
ment wants to stop them travelling freely between New Zealand and Australia and other
countries. The previous speaker stirred the facts around, but the Minister has cleared the
matter up once and for all.
The member for Petone should be aware that the letter he referred to from the
Government Statistician supports the Minister and the action taken by the Government.
When the member for Hutt moved the motion he expressed concern about New Zealand's
economy and how the economic situation encouraged people to leave New Zealand. What a
lot of rubbish! He knows, or he should know, that New Zealand's economic position in the
world is as high as it has ever been. The people know that the International Monetary Fund
and the OECD have stressed that New Zealand's economy is in good hands under the
National Government and the present Prime Minister. The statements by those organisa-
tions would give encouragement to anyone wanting to come to New Zealand under the
Government's immigration policy. The member for Petone should know that New Zealand
has a triple A investment rating. The member can quote from whatever newspaper he wants
to, but I have quoted New Zealand's position on the international scene.
New Zealand has a responsible immigration policy under the Minister of Immigration.
The policy is part of the Government's package to restore New Zealand's shattered
economy. During the 3 years of hard Labour much good was undone, and the Government is
now restoring the position. The motion calls on the Government to reverse social and
economic policies. The Government will not do that. Our standard of living will be improved
in future years because of the Government's social and economic policies. I inform the
member for Christchurch Central that New Zealand needs more emigration, and should get
rid of a few Labour members of Parliament, boilermakers, cooks and stewards, and Bill


## p. 2057 (#513) ###########################################

10 August
2057
Discussion of Motions
Andersen and his gang to complete the immigration policy. The Minister of Immigration and
the Government would like to see those people leave New Zealand; then the country would
see some progress.
The Government's policy is to restore the people's social, economic, and housing
position. It has taken 20 months since the dismissal of the Labour Government for that
position to return to an even keel, and we will move on from here. If the Opposition became
the Government, which it will not before the year 2000, what would it do to stop New
Zealanders from travelling overseas? Would it put the people-young and old, and
tourists-through a grilling process and ask them what they plan to do overseas? Would the
Opposition impose a tax on New Zealanders who want to leave the country? The member
for Timaru has mentioned incentives. What sort of incentives would the Opposition
introduce if it had the chance? It would introduce extra taxation and would probably
withhold passports. The Minister of Immigration is to be congratulated for introducing law
and order into the Government's immigration policy. He has increased the staff in the
immigration division; and that is needed for future planning.
The time allowed for the discussion of the motion having expired, the motion lapsed.
Improvement in External Trade
Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua): I move, That this House notes the substantial improvement in
the external trade statistics produced by the Reserve Bank where the June year improvement in
trade transactions has moved from minus $716.7 million in 1975 to minus $236.5 million in
1976 to plus $183.7 million in 1977, and further notes that the net borrowing figures in the June
year 1975 show that during that period of the Labour Government's administration, $828.4
million was borrowed and under National $480 million this June year, and that the external
deficit in those years June 1975 to June 1977 expressed as a percentage of the gross national
product has been reduced from 11 percent to 4.2 percent in spite of the debt servicing requirement
of $275 million mostly created by the total mismanagement of the economy under this Labour
Government.
The figures show an important achievement, not only for the Government, but also for
the people, who have made every effort in the last 18 months to bring the country back from
the brink of a major recession caused by the Labour Government's ineptitude. During the
last 18 months the attitude of the people has changed from one of despondency to one of
investment and confidence in the future of the country and the leadership the Government
has given to help us out of the mess. What did the Labour Government do? It increased
consumption and increased imports by almost $1,000 million in its last year in office. The
Labour Government reduced investment, particularly in the farming industry. As a farmer I
know the Labour Government reduced investment not only in the farming industry but in
other sectors as well, by increasing the community's consumption of goods that did not
produce overseas exchange.
Mr Bruce Barclay: That's not correct.
Mr FALLOON: The member for Christchurch Central says that is not correct. The
Labour Government reduced investment in the farming industry. When the late Norman
Kirk revalued New Zealand's currency in 1974 he said that the Government had revalued to
redistribute income. Page 37 of the State of the Livestock Industry report commissioned by
the National Government states: "The difference between the actual and constant input
series thus represented the amount of net income lost to the sector relative to 1960-61 by way
of increased prices of inputs. At the aggregate level there were 20 000 dairy farms and 24 000
sheep farms in 1975. On this basis the aggregate income transfer to the non-farm sector for
1975 was in the order of $365 million." The member for Christchurch Central has said the
Labour Government increased investment. It took away $1 million a day from the farming
industry, but gave back $50 million to encourage farmers to kill their ewe lambs for $1 a
head, making export figures higher.
How has the improvement been achieved? By the efforts of all New Zealanders, who
have gone out and made something of the country, and not let it be dragged under and
become a socialist State. During the term of the Labour Government public sector
employment was increased by 31 000 people. The Government is trying to correct that, and
increased its internal spending by only 2.3 percent last year. That is completely different
from Labour's efforts during its term of office. The Labour Government increased Govern-
ment spending from 28 percent to 42 percent of the GNP. We have also improved the
farming industry, so that farmers will have confidence to invest in their farms. We have given


## p. 2058 (#514) ###########################################

2058
10 August
Discussion of Motions
manufacturers much more opportunity to go out and sell, and we have put some restraint on
the economy to reduce the impact of the Government on the community.
Let us look at the value of exports. Labour members keep talking about the boom of
1972-73, but they forget to mention that export volume was not increasing, and they spent all
the funds. The volume of exports in the last year has gone up by 17 percent according to the
Reserve Bank. The volume of manufacturing exports has increased by 34 percent. The
increase in forestry exports is 33 percent, and in agricultural exports it is 15 percent. We
export to 160 countries, which is quite an achievement for a little country at the bottom of
the world. This has come about because we have given our manufacturing and farming
industries every opportunity to capitalise in a climate that encourages them to sell.
Mr Bruce Barclay: You cut the fertiliser subsidy.
Mr FALLOON: Yes, we cut the fertiliser subsidy as the honourable member well
knows, but we have increased the prices the farmers receive by a considerable amount. The
important figure is not the amount the Government gives the farmer, but what the farmer
has left at the end of the day. The Labour Government reduced farmers' prices by 40
percent, and then gave them back $50 million and said, "You can have this. Stop whingeing
and get on with the job." The Deputy Leader of the Opposition proudly said last night that
he would repeat that statement every time.
Would the Labour Party have reduced imports this year if it had been in office? There is
no answer, but I suggest that members opposite have been going around the country saying
they would. The figures prove that we have reduced the volume of imports, which is the
important factor, by 1.1 percent to March this year. That figure is from the Department of
Statistics. For the March quarter the reduction was 8.4 percent. If Labour had been in office
it would have reduced the volume of imports because, although members opposite are not
answering, import control is the Opposition's stated policy. I wonder what the result would
have been. To enter the realms of conjecture, perhaps if they had reduced imports many
countries, especially Third World countries-which would have been the first to
suffer would have closed their markets to us even further. The snide remarks of Opposition
members recently about the Prime Minister's going overseas to try to improve access for our
products typifies what would have happened under a Labour Government. The most
important achievement of the Government is that its members are continually travelling
overseas; top people are sent to sell our products.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: What success!
Mr FALLOON: It is interesting to observe the disarray of the Opposition when we talk
about the economy. Members opposite talk about prices and imports, but they do not talk
about facts. They do not mention our increased volume of exports. They talk about the
price, and say that we are not responsible for that. I agree that the Government is not
responsible for the price, but it is responsible for the confidence of the people in the last 18
months their confidence to get out and sell. As a Government member I pay tribute to the
Department of Trade and Industry.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): This is quite an interesting
motion. I wonder who, of the back-room boys, prepared it, and who made the decision to
put it in the hands of the member for Pahiatua? There is no doubt that the figures have been
carefully selected. They try to show the Government in the most favourable light. I compare
the figures that were chosen, because mahy are carefully omitted, with the Government's
attempt to get credit for reducing the consumer price index by debating a motion 3 or 4 days
before the June quarter figures came out showing the Government's record failure. Even the
member for Pahiatua, I am sure, knows that the New Zealand Council for Economic
Research has already predicted that the figures set out here are the best possible gloss on the
case, and that from now on the deficit will increase again.
I wonder why the member did not mention all the borrowing? He wanted to make the
Government's borrowing look as favourable as possible. He did not mention suppliers'
credits, or little things like the Huntly power station, borrowing for the Maui gas develop-
ment, and borrowing from the International Monetary Fund. Those figures make up the
total picture, which is not presented in this motion for obvious reasons. It would not make
the Government's case look nearly so good. The motion is just like the publication of a
notice of motion on the consumer price index 3 days before the publication of the June
quarter figure, which showed a 4.8 percent increase. It shows the same sort of careful
selection. Is the member trying to take credit for this Government in the price rises for our
exports?
Mr Falloon: No-I said no.


## p. 2059 (#515) ###########################################

10 August
2059
Discussion of Motions
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Oh, he is not. He does not want to take credit for the increase in
cost of other items. What about freight? The cost of freight trebled during the time it was
under review, but the Government cannot control that. The Government could control
travel and various other expenses, but it has not, so he did not mention that either. The
picture presented here is of a squandered opportunity, a doubling of New Zealand's export
incomes in the space of 2 years, and the whole of it squandered, frittered away, by the
National Government's failure to act. The Minister of Overseas Trade has been caterwauling
around the chanceries of Europe. He has not gained a single increase in price for our dairy
farmers. Joe Walding got two increases of 18 percent within 18 months.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Caterwauling?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Yes, that is the sort of noise that has been reported back
here caterwauling.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: What does it mean?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The Prime Minister goes overseas and negotiates with a bludgeon.
He has even taken on the Prime Minister of Australia. Perhaps many of us would like to, but
not in terms of the NAFTA pact.
Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling: He hit him on the knee.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Yes, and that was well above the belt in the course of the direction
of his attack. There is no doubt that this Government had an opportunity to make real
progress, and threw it away. I want to talk to the member for Pahiatua about some of the
figures he alluded to but did not quote. First, there was farm investment. According to the
Department of Statistics, using estimates of the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, the
best year for farm investment was the March year 1973-74.
Mr Falloon: What about the following year?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: There was a marked fall the next year, and there was a further fall
in subsequent years. Even that year was better than the 1970 and 1971 years. The best year
was the one ending March 1974, the year in which he implied that the Labour Government
had acted against the interests of the farmers. When we knew that the farmers were not
having a good year in 1975-76, we increased to $311 million the total expenditure under the
heading of development of industries, farming as well as manufacturing. Then the member
wanted to take some credit for the Government for the increase in export earnings, but he
did not add that manufactured exports increased two and a half times in the 2 years after the
Labour Government had borrowed money to spend on the development of manufacturing
industries.
The general increase of farm earnings was nearly 100 percent, nearly doubled in 2 years,
because the Labour Government in 1975-76 was responsible for spending almost $200
million in assisting farmers to get on to the land, to repay short-term debts, and to spread
fertiliser on their properties to maintain production. The alternative, as these economic
backwoodsmen know, was to retrench, and to cut down on our capital stock. A good farmer
would prefer to borrow and preserve his capital stock, and under Labour he got the chance
to do it. The farmers did it, and created the base from which they could build in 1976 and
1977. If we had been so foolish as to listen to the advice so generously given us by the
National Opposition in 1974-75, capital stock would have had to be slaughtered on a far
greater scale.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: That's just what you did. You encouraged it.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: There was a tiny increase in slaughtering. I would point out to
members opposite that the only real increase under their Administration is in pigs.
Dr Shearer: And what have you got against pigs?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I can understand the member's sympathy for their breeding habits.
I support the Labour Government's programme that made sure there would be grass for all
this livestock to be fed on, and that is the programme that members opposite are trying to
attack. We spent $311 million on the development of industry so that export expansion
would be possible. That positive contribution was made by members on this side, and in
return we get abuse from members opposite for the deficit before borrowing. The deficit
before borrowing was the price of a doubling of our export earnings in the last 2 years; and if
members opposite are so blind that they cannot see that, at least they ought to grope their
way to the truth.
The Government's so-called diplomacy, its concern with NAFTA, its concern with our
marketing, and its concern with our export relationship, have all been tragedies of positive
or negative omission. As a result, despite this Government, but because of the actions of the
Labour Government in investing loan funds, we doubled our export earnings. Manufactur-


## p. 2060 (#516) ###########################################

2060
10 August
Discussion of Motions
ing, where the Labour Government made the greatest efforts, went up by 24 times, but
members opposite do not want to believe it. The rise in export earnings more than covers the
deficit that existed at the time we were spending those funds. It is to the Government's
discredit that it is left with a deficit that is again on the increase. The Government has failed
to cope. It is trying to preserve existing markets. It has done next to nothing to develop new
ones. It has allowed our receipts to be eroded by the rising costs of transhipments.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: What arrant nonsense!
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Here we have the abject failure of a Minister of Overseas Trade
who cannot redirect. When he went into office, provision had been made for trade missions
from South America, but nearly 2 years later they still have not got here. Peru was prepared
to double its purchases of New Zealand milk powder if we increased our buying from them.
Arrangements were in hand, but the Government has done nothing.
Mr QUIGLEY (Rangiora): I do not want to be hard on Opposition members, because
there are times when they are substantially better than National members at a number of
things-and we had some illustrations from the deputy leader of the Opposition. There is no
doubt that the Labour Party, when it was the Government, was much better than any
National Government would ever be at increasing the cost of living. Look at the consumer
price index figure for the year ending June 1976-a 17.7 percent increase over the previous
year-and compare it with the 14 percent increase 12 months later. That was a substantial
advance. The last Labour Government was also much better than the National Government
at reducing stock numbers; the Deputy Leader of the Opposition knows that the numbers
went down substantially during the period that his party was in office. Farmers were
encouraged to reduce stock numbers, as the former Under-Secretary to the Minister of
Agriculture and Fisheries knows perfectly well. I suspect that the policy to encourage
farmers to kill their breeding stock, and to pay them for it, was his. Because farmers were
deliberately encouraged by the Labour Government to kill their ewe lambs, stock was not
retained on the farms, and stock numbers were run down.
Labour members, I suggest, are really disappointed at the substantial progress, and the
improvement in New Zealand's economic circumstances since they went out of office.
Would it not have been much easier for the democratic socialists to take over New Zealand,
and for their philosophies to be introduced, if the downturn in the economy had continued as
it was continuing when they were the Government? When they went into office in 1972, they
inherited a massive overseas reserve. In June 1973 the overseas credit was the highest it had
been for many years, and New Zealand was for the first time in its history a creditor nation.
In a very short time the Labour Government frittered that money away-not only frittered it
away, but also in 1974 borrowed substantial sums of money overseas. In 1974 the Minister of
Finance, now the Leader of the Opposition, handed over the portfolio of Finance to the then
member for Otahuhu. The situation then became worse, and New Zealand went deeper into
the mire in an economic sense. The overseas debt at 31 March 1973 was about $574 million.
Two years later, helped along by the present Leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition,
that figure had increased to $1,463 million. New Zealand's international standing had been
reduced; that is illustrated by the rate of interest that the Labour Government had to pay for
the money it borrowed overseas.
As an example, for three loans borrowed from the Federal Republic of Germany the
interest rate ranged from 94 percent to 9 percent, and the interest rate for another loan
raised in Hong Kong in the same year was 10 percent. The National Government this year
raised two loans in Switzerland, one at 5 percent, and another at 53 percent. Compared with
the interest rate that the Labour Government had to pay in 1975, those rates show that New
Zealand has been raised again to a high standing overseas, which is why we now have a triple
A credit rating.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): The member for Rangiora
started his speech by mentioning the consumer price index, and interestingly enough chose
the June 1976 year, which included 7 months of the National Administration. The National
Government had already thrown out a large number of consumer subsidies, and increased a
large number of charges that cannot be avoided by ordinary New Zealanders. It is little
wonder that the index for the 7 months under the National Government had risen to the 17.6
percent referred to. Equally, it is little wonder that in the most recent quarter we have had
an increase of 4.8 percent-the greatest quarterly increase in the history of the consumer
price index-yet the member talked about increased consumer costs under the Labour
Administration. He also said that the farmers would be better off as a direct result of the
actions of this Tory Administration. He should look at some of the independent viewpoints.


## p. 2061 (#517) ###########################################

10 August
2061
Discussion of Motions
For example, the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research reports that even if overseas
prices are sustained-and that would not be any fault of the present Administration-the
farmers could expect their 1977 incomes to decrease by 19 percent. To a large extent that is
the fault of the Government, because the reduction is due to internal factors.
I want to take up a couple of points raised by the member for Pahiatua, who opened the
debate. He had something to say about borrowing. It is intriguing that the National
Government, notwithstanding the vastly improved economic circumstances, to which the
member referred, will have both the public and private sectors in New Zealand borrow more
in 2 years than was borrowed during the 3 years of the Labour Administration.
Mr Falloon: What about the repayments?
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING: If the member looks at the record, he will see that during
1973 and into 1974 the Labour Government did not borrow 1 cent overseas, because the
circumstances at the time allowed it to get into the business of repayment. However, at no
time has the present Administration or indeed previous National Administrations under
the present Minister of Finance-ever had a year in which it did not borrow.
The member also had a word to say about imports, and spoke of the marvellous things
the National Government has done, but the March figures reveal that imports have
decreased in volume by 1 percent. What a remarkable effort from a Government led by a
Prime Minister who told the people of New Zealand that one of the first actions of his
Government would be to control imports. Some control! For the 1975 calendar year, the
volume of imports was reduced by 27.8 percent compared with the previous year. We now
have the newest National Government back-bencher suggesting that a 1 percent reduction in
1 year is a great achievement.
The most striking feature of this debate is the incredible gall of Government members,
who claim a victory. As my colleague the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said, the story
has been one of squandered opportunity. In 2 years, from June 1975 to June 1977, New
Zealand's export income went up by no less than 100 percent to $1,672 million. Was the
deficit reduced by a comparable amount? No way; indeed, in June 1975 the current account
deficit was still $530 million, which ought to be compared with the claim made by the Prime
Minister and Minister of Finance at a Kapiti National Party meeting as recently as 22 April
this year when he predicted that the deficit would be down to $400 million. Why has it not
been reduced to that amount? Simply because the National Government has not controlled
imports as it said it would. During that 2-year period imports increased by $1,342 million.
The time allowed for the discussion of the motion having expired, the motion lapsed.
Unemployment
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): I move, That this House notes with concern the stop
press of the latest issue of the New Zealand Economic News Service which reads: “Unemploy-
ment continues to rocket for the 2 weeks ended 15 July recording a lift of more than one
thousand (1000) in the effective total" and apart from considering measures of assistance to
those out of a job, calls upon the Government to institute or implement an active employment
policy without delay. As an offshoot, and a very unhappy by-product of the Government's
present economic policies, our unemployment is more than just a passing worry. If you add
to the figure the increasing number of people in the work force who are fleeing from the
country and the economic policies, then you begin to see the impact on the rest of the
economy and society of these policies. I do not believe in and have not been a party to those
who preach despair and despondency for political power. We should try to put more
confidence and hope back into the community.
Many policies being pursued by the Government do not look far enough ahead, and are
not sufficiently progressive in their outlook to see the world as it is. Unless New Zealand
does look ahead our Minister of Overseas Trade will be doing a pretty fair job if he can get
even a 10 percent increase in export prices instead of the 26 percent we want. That might not
sound successful, but it is realistic in today's world. All the propaganda cannot destroy that
approach, which has an immediate spinoff on the internal economy, and is producing
unemployment as well as emigration at a level we cannot sustain for very long.
I moved the notice of motion hoping to bring the House back to reality about the
immediate and long-term future of the country. No matter which Government is in office,
the problem will still exist. My criticism, which is confirmed by the unemployment figures, is
that we are doing too little and talking too little about the problem. There is an obvious lack
of any long-term programme to deal not only with inflation but also with the country's


## p. 2062 (#518) ###########################################

2062
10 August
Discussion of Motions
capacity to earn sufficient overseas funds to keep the people who are currently unemployed
in productive work that can give added value to our primary products, for which we now
have a more welcome market in the Third World than in Europe. This is what the notice of
motion suggests. We ought to be discussing much more than we are at present those matters
that seem to be only matters of thrust and parry between two political parties.
The hard fact is that unemployment rose by 12.8 percent in July. At that date—and the
figure has risen a little since, but not too much; I am glad to say it did not rise by more than
about 150 in the last fortnightly return-the number of registered unemployed was 6590,
which is still the highest we have had since 1972, and only slightly less than the highest figure
we had during the 1968 recession. The number of people on special work is now 7620, which
is an increase of 11 percent in 1 month. I know winter is always a difficult employment
period, but nevertheless people are suffering, whether it is winter or summer. To better
organise our economic affairs to reduce the number of unemployed as much as possible, we
need long-term programmes. We will then not only restore the confidence the community
badly needs, but will be doing something for the country's long-term future.
The figures I quote-and they are not figures one can rely on, which is as much a fact
under the present Government as it was under the Labour Government-do not show the
true extent of unemployment. Many unemployed people do not register. I have no criticism
of that, but when we were in office and faced with a similar problem-a very severe
turnround in our terms of trade-we sat with officials from the employers and the unions in
the Industrial Relations Council and hammered out an active employment policy, which
seems to have been cast into the bin. It was not a party policy, but a policy for the nation,
and I think a great deal more should be done about that. I hope that the next speaker can say
what is being done in relation to that well-thought-out and active employment policy,
hammered out by employers, unions, and the inter-departmental committee. Those are the
sorts of things that we should be discussing more and more in the House, because the
country is facing difficult economic problems through its inability to earn sufficient overseas
funds in Europe.
We must expand into the Third World. It will not be easy-in fact it will be
difficult-but if we fail to do it we will be faced with this kind of situation year in and year
out. My major criticism of the past 20 months is that there has been insufficient vision. We
have been running to old markets where we are not as welcome as we once were. Those
countries have their own problems, and we ought to be taking a lead into the Third World,
and encouraging the affluent northern hemisphere nations to come in with us, not only
because it is of economic importance, but because their affluence was, to a large extent, built
upon the exploitation of the southern hemisphere in years gone by. We must fight for a
viable economic future for our country, and I believe that that is the approach.
In moving the motion, I have tried to talk about the country's future, and not to play
party politics, as is the member who is interjecting. But the moment a point is raised that
requires thought and vision, members opposite turn back to party politics. That has been my
experience of the National Party in all my years in the House. It would rather take shots at
the Labour Party than get on with the job it was elected to do. Having sorted out our
problems, we will proceed to sort out the problems of the National Party. Some of the things
I have said cannot be answered from the other side.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Watch the halo.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Sir Frank Holmes, who has something of a halo, is seen to be
someone who has some hope for the future of our country. He has been appointed by the
Government to give it some ideas-and it needs them. Our research staff have drawn to my
attention one of his statements that we should consider. He said: "There is a concealed and
growing unemployment problem represented by a lack of opportunity for many who might
wish to work, but are unable or unwilling to register as unemployed and, even more
importantly, by a large and growing emigration from the country. Prolongation of this trend
or of a generally depressed investment is obviously not in the country's long-run interest."
What we want to hear in the House is not party-political bickering and poking of noses into
one another's party business, but the Government's plans and programmes to solve the
unemployment problem that Sir Frank Holmes so clearly and eloquently conveyed in an
address on 28 July to the Waikato - Bay of Plenty Manufacturers Association. We could not
be better employed in the House than in considering that kind of problem, rather than in
having each side trying to sort out the party business of the other side.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): The member for Roskill himself raised the problems of the
Labour Party, and said that he would sort those out first, and would then sort out the


## p. 2063 (#519) ###########################################

10 August
2063
Discussion of Motions
problems of the National Party. I am bound to comment on the Labour Party's problems,
because there is an unparalleled shambles in the whole of the Auckland Labour Party
area-division, party member standing against party member, and a complete uncertainty
about party philosophy. There is a constant threat of head office sticking its nose into local
affairs. That sort of thing never happens in the National Party. We have also found that the
head office of the Labour Party is unable to balance its books, and has had to borrow from
campaign funds. When the Labour Party can sort out those problems, it is welcome to try to
sort out the problems of the National Party and the nation; but I suspect that it will not be
able to sort out its own problems.
The member for Roskill asked that there should be no party bickering, and that we
should not preach despair and despondency. Then he continued to preach despair and
despondency. He has recently been quoted as saying that unemployment was six times
higher than shown in the official statistics. Is that not preaching despair and despondency? Is
it being realistic? It is complete rubbish. He said that there was a lack of long-term planning
and too much thrust and parry. I suggest that the motion we are debating is, in fact, all thrust
and parry, with no fact. When he first moved the notice of motion the member for Roskill
probably had a fervent hope that it would not come up for debate, because it is not a motion
that he can successfully debate. It called upon the Government to institute or implement an
active employment policy without delay. The member for Roskill claimed to have forged an
active employment policy when he was the Minister of Labour. An active employment policy
is not just something a Minister of Labour works out with his department when there is a
crisis, but is part of a Government's total philosophy. It is part of the total philosophy and
economic management of the National Government, which believes in full and dignified
employment for all.
The Government has a full employment policy that lies at the very root of its full
economic policy. In fact, the high growth in unemployment occurred up to December 1975
and January 1976, when the Labour Government was in office. In January 1975, unemploy-
ment was only 3,000, but by December 1975 it had risen to 5668. By January 1976—and I am
sure that not even the member for Roskill would blame the National Government-it had
risen to 6416. Within a month, the National Government had got it down. At the time of the
election the Labour Government claimed that unemployment would rise to anything from
20 000 to 50 000. Under the National Government the unemployment level has remained
stable. We would like to have seen it lower, but, on the admission of the Labour
Government, it should have been between 20 000 and 50 000. The National Government is
proud of its major achievement in keeping the unemployment figures stable. That has been
achieved primarily by an increase in the number of jobs available, and that is at the heart of
the Government's full employment policy. It has made sure that jobs are available not by
creating them in the Government sector and making them a burden on the average taxpayer,
which is what the socialists would have done, but by encouraging the development of jobs in
the private sector. It is interesting that last year, under the National Government, the
number of people employed in the State services fell by 1600. We do not want to build a
bigger and bigger bureaucracy, and we do not want to add to the taxpayers' burden.
However, although we reduced the number of State servants by 1600, we managed to
encourage the growth of jobs in the private sector by no less than 11 023. That was achieved
under the National Administration, and that is the heart of a real full-employment policy.
The Government is not playing with the problem; it is not merely actioning measures,
but is making structural changes in the economy that produce job opportunities for people,
not in the public sector but in the private sector. Opposition members are very quiet now,
because some home truths are being rammed home to them. In fact, under the National
Government the number of jobs in the private sector has increased considerably, and I
reiterate that that is the very heart of a full employment policy. If one compares the New
Zealand figures with those for overseas countries one finds some very interesting facts. In
New Zealand the unemployment level is about 0.55 percent of the total work force, whereas
in Australia it is 5.2 percent.
Mr T. J. Young: The bases of calculation are quite different.
Mr MALCOLM: I concede that there are minor differences in the bases of calculation in
different countries, but I wonder whether the member for Hutt would suggest that any
person should leave New Zealand to go across to Australia and join the work force there,
when there is a level of unemployment of almost 6 percent. I do not believe he would.
Indeed, the figures show that many New Zealanders who go overseas for a 2-year period
return home much earlier than they had intended. The Minister of Immigration commented


## p. 2064 (#520) ###########################################

2064
10 August
Discussion of Motions
recently that it has been found that a considerable proportion of those leaving New Zealand
with the intention of having an extended holiday for a couple of years or so have travelled
only as far as Australia, discovered the unemployment problems there, and have come
scuttling home very quickly. They know that the National Administration maintains a full
employment policy and that it is easier to obtain work here. In fact, they know they are
better off and have more security in New Zealand.
Another Government speaker in the debate will explain some of the effective short-
term measures being taken by the Government in an endeavour to reduce the present level
of unemployment. We concede that it is higher than we would like it to be, and of course we
would like to have full employment. However, the unemployment level today is only
marginally higher than it was when the former Labour Government was in office. Since that
time the size of the work force has increased, and we have added a further 11 000 jobs to the
private sector. At the same time we have succeeded in reducing the number of jobs in the
public sector, which are a drain on the taxpayer. I emphasise again that that is a real full-
employment policy, and is working, not because it has been fiddled around with by the
Minister of Labour on his own, but because it is part of the National Government's total
economic philosophy. It can be shown clearly that it is working in practice.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): It is illogical for the member for Eden to
quote overseas unemployment statistics as justification for the rising levels of unemployment
created by his Government in this country. Unemployment in New Zealand must be judged
by the traditional standards acceptable to New Zealanders. The present high and rising rate
is disastrous to our economy. The member for Eden claimed that unemployment today is at
about the same level as it was under the former Labour Government. When that Govern-
ment was in office the figure for the equivalent month was about half the figure it is today.
Hon. T. F. Gill: That's not correct.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY: Yes, it is.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Quote the figures.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY: The earlier figure was 8400, compared with 14 200-odd
today.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Most of those people are on special work.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY: The latest figure available shows that the number of
registered unemployed and people on relief work totalled 14 200 in the month of July. The
member for Roskill pointed out the disastrous consequences of the Government's policy and
reinforced the warning from the New Zealand Economic News Service, which said that the
number of unemployed increased by 1000 in the first half of July, and in fact increased by
1500 by the end of July. However, it was significant that the member for Eden failed to offer
any solution. He did not mention positive or effective approaches the Government has in
mind, or proffer any idea at all about how the Government hopes to overcome the serious
unemployment problem it has created. For that reason, and because of the Government's
general incompetence in economic management and other affairs, New Zealanders, next
November, will not be able to get to the ballot box quickly enough to return a Labour
Government pledged to promote full employment and rising profitability, income levels, and
living standards. It has always been a Labour Government that has had to restore the basis of
our economy after disastrous economic crises created by National Governments. The people
always look to us to rebuild the economic base and make New Zealand strong again.
I remind members opposite that the unemployment figure for July, covering both
registered unemployed and those on relief work, is higher than 14 000 because of the bad
economic management of the country by the National Government, which has embarked on
a hasty and ill-advised deflationary policy and cut back Government spending at a time when
the private sector has not been spending at a level sufficient to take up the slack. That
Government action has had a disastrous impact on consumer demand, on the money supply,
and on industrial output. In fact, it has led to a decline in business confidence and
investment. It has caused bankruptcies and the collapse of many businesses; it has boosted
inflation, and it has cut back consumer demand and consumer spending, which in turn has
resulted in fewer goods being bought. As a result, manufacturers and others who have found
that they are selling less have reduced their output and laid off staff, thereby creating
unemployment and further compounding the problem. I emphasise that the latest available
figures show that the number of unemployed has risen to the staggering total of more than
14 000.
Government policies are having the effect of worsening the unemployment position.
For example, the increase in interest rates, the cutting back of the Government's housing


## p. 2065 (#521) ###########################################

10 August
2065
Discussion of Motions
programme, and the cutting of Government loan finance for housing, has plunged the
building industry into its worst economic state for years.
Hon. W. A. Fraser: Since the depression.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY: Yes, since the depression, as the member for St. Kilda
has pointed out. That, in turn, has produced more unemployment, and has driven needed
building workers and specialists overseas in search of work. The Government's high interest
rate policy has forced up interest rates to about double figures for first-mortgage lending,
thus making it quite impossible for young people to own their own homes, or even to
contemplate home ownership. Consequently, demand in the building industry has been
reduced. All these various policies of the Government are inter-related, and are destroying
the economic base of the country at a time when the Government has claimed in its Budget
that it will pursue objectives to reflate the economy. Well, you cannot reflate the New
Zealand economy by cutting back on the building industry as the Government is doing at
present, because many other industries depend for their turnover and prosperity on the
prosperity and growth of the building industry. Cutting back the building industry savagely
and putting disincentives on home ownership by forcing up interest rates and housing prices,
as this Government has done, cuts demand and throws building workers out of jobs.
Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa): The member for Wigram has just given us a good
example of a conjuror's arithmetic. It failed him in the superannuation debate, and it has
failed him again. He claimed that there are twice as many unemployed under the National
Government as there were under the last Labour Government, but statistics tell us a
different story. In August 1975, under the Labour Government, almost 10 000 people were
unemployed. At present, under the National Government, 14 000 are unemployed, very far
from the member for Wigram's allegation. The greatest percentage increase in unemploy-
ment in recent years occurred in the winter months of 1975, when the member for Wigram
was a Labour Cabinet Minister. He suggested that the member for Eden had offered no
solution to the problem, but the member for Eden outlined clearly and explicitly the
National Government's solution to the difficulties by encouraging activity and providing
incentives for the private sector-and it is working. In the private sector, 11 000 additional
jobs have been created-an increase of 2 percent.
I was interested in the remarks of the member for Wigram, because his bench mate and
predecessor in the debate, the member for Roskill, had said he was so concerned that he
wanted to approach the debate on a non-partisan basis. The member for Wigram did the
very opposite, yet those two members sit on the same bench. Apparently they did not
consult about their tactics, but that is typical of the Labour Party-total confusion. It was an
extraordinary sight to see the member for Roskill wringing his hands over the state of the
nation, in his puffball speech. He posed a problem, but did not prescribe a solution. He
implied that the Labour Party was a viable and credible alternative Government, but
members opposite cannot organise or control their own party. The member for Roskill was a
forlorn figure in Auckland last weekend-just another gigantic step backwards for the
Labour Party.
In his speech this afternoon he endeavoured to conjure up the spectre of our people
clothed in sackcloth. Last year, the Labour Party predicted that unemployment would rise to
20 000 another arithmetical error. This debate has been a smokescreen for the total
anarchy existing in the Labour Party, over which the member for Roskill supposedly
presides. What are the facts? I shall repeat some of the points the member for Eden spelt out
so clearly. The unemployed in New Zealand represent 0.55 percent of the work force,
compared with Australia's 5.2 percent. France and Germany have unemployment totals of
1 000 000, again 4 percent to 5 percent of the work force. Is the member for Roskill
suggesting that the record of this National Government is deficient? Has he the temerity to
call upon the Government to institute an active employment policy when already we have
one in existence and working well? Has he been asleep, or has he been totally absorbed in
the problems of selecting candidates in Auckland?
The man who was the Labour Government's Minister of Labour when the number of
those on special and unproductive work rose by 5 percent said in the House this afternoon
that the record of the National Government was deficient. I shall repeat the basic trends
produced by the present Administration. We are restoring confidence in the private
employment sector. In the April year 11 000 additional jobs were created-an increase of
nearly 2 percent in productive profitable employment of our manpower. That contrasts with
the years 1974-75 when, under the Labour Government, there was a decline in the number
of personnel employed in the private sector. Moreover, under the Național Government,
17-Vol. 412


## p. 2066 (#522) ###########################################

2066
10 August
Discussion of Motions
civil service and local authority employment has dropped sharply. We have curbed the
artificial growth in the public sector. A most important trend for the future development of
New Zealand has been the rediversion of our manpower, our productive work force, away
from State service and local authority areas into the private sector.
The present Minister of Labour has reinstituted a private sector subsidy scheme for
those out of work. I notice members opposite are very quiet now. The scheme was
introduced last year in Northland and Gisborne on a trial basis, and next week it will be
extended to Hamilton, Rotorua, Napier, Hastings, New Plymouth, Blenheim, Greymouth,
and Invercargill-10 provincial centres. I remind members opposite that all but three of
those regions discarded their socialist members of Parliament at the last general election.
The subsidy offered is one-third of the wage rate, the aim being to provide productive full-
time employment, especially for young people, about whom this National Government is
concerned, and for people with a genuine employment problem.
The scheme will give the employer a chance to train workers and make them fully
productive in the private sector; otherwise, they would be collecting unemployment benefit.
From the silence of members opposite it is fairly clear that that would have been their
solution to the problem. Moreover, assistance will be given to local authorities and
organisations operating work rehabilitation schemes. Again, the emphasis will be on young
people with poor work records. It will be an attempt to help the slow learners, if you
like the disabled and the disadvantaged—and we will take those newly retrained people,
put them to work in the private task force, and give them a second employment opportunity.
The time allowed for the discussion of the motion having expired, the motion lapsed.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr HARRISON (Hawke's Bay): Yesterday, I said that the Budget aimed to achieve a
limited number of objectives; I was describing some of the ways in which the Budget aimed
to increase production for export by stimulating farm production, the fishing industry, and
forestry, and by encouraging manufacturing. Other important steps forward involve trans-
port and energy, and I hope the Government's moves towards a rationalisation of rail and
road transport will result in fairer competition between these two modes and in a better use
of manpower resources on roads, railway lines, trucks, and rolling stock.
In Hawke's Bay, a large number of people share the concern of the Hawke's Bay
Harbour Board at the effect of containerisation on the Port of Napier. The board, shippers,
and the waterside union all have an enviable record in making the Port of Napier the most
efficient in the country, bar none. In Hawke's Bay, importers and exporters, meat and wool
producers, apple growers, manufacturers, retailers, and wholesalers are all apprehensive
about the future of their port. Although aggregration agreements on meat and wool may
average out the cost of getting those products from the farms to the export container port,
and the use of container ships may reduce the cost of freight to overseas destinations, doubts
still remain that these changes will reduce costs for farmers. There is no doubt in the minds
of other exporters, such as the apple growers, and of the importers that they will be forced to
pay more because of the reduced throughput at the Port of Napier. Exporters and importers
in Hawke's Bay have, through their boards, invested a good deal in the harbour at Napier,
and none welcomes the prospect of the underutilisation of this resource and of the human
resources and skills that reside among the waterside workers and others who service that
port.
I hope that the Minister of Transport will continue to do what he can to help to sustain
the Port of Napier. Conventional shipping should be encouraged to go there, and Napier
should be kept in mind as a potential port for the use of container shipping when the
bottlenecks that we call Auckland and Wellington are finally clogged by their inadequate
space for handling containers and ships, and by the inadequate facilities for moving
containers in and out of those harbour areas. There must come a time when more land will
have to be reclaimed at Auckland and Wellington, and it must make more economic sense to
put in a container crane to enable Napier to be used to its full potential, rather than filling up
more of those two pretty harbours at Auckland and Wellington.
No sophisticated State, no civilised society, can exist without an input of energy. Where
ancient peoples harnessed their slaves, and man for generations has used wind to propel his
ships and fire from wood and coal to drive his machines, modern man has come to rely on oil
and gas to fuel his factories and to turn the wheels of transport. These fuels are now costly


## p. 2067 (#523) ###########################################

10 August
2067
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
and are likely to become scarce, so the unfolding of an energy policy makes a good deal of
sense. In this Budget we see provisions for the conservation of energy, and measures for
exploration for oil and gas—and I welcome the fact that the Government is proposing to drill
its first hole in Hawke's Bay for gas. I hope it finds it, but better still oil. The energy policy
outlined in the Budget allows for the development of small hydro electricity schemes on
many of our smaller rivers, for the development of geothermal energy, and for the
exploration and exploitation, if need be, of our coal resources.
The Government has not neglected people with real need in our difficult economic
times. The rebate on rates for family homes applies from 1 April next year, and will be a real
help and breakthrough in that area. The young family rebate for those families with a child
under the age of 5 will result in an increase of $9 a week for incomes of up to $150 a week. It
is phased out by the time the income reaches $240. Then there is the single-income family
rebate where there is a child under the age of 10 years; that rebate of $208 will be payable at
the end of the financial year if the spouse's income is less than $20 a week. Then the existing
wife rebate will be increased from $375 to $520. These changes will make a significant
difference to the lower-income families-and there are many of them in New Zealand.
I now want to talk about some aspects of social welfare in Napier. I believe that about
120 social service organisations operate in Napier, and they are run by the State, the city
council, and by voluntary groups. They deal with all sorts of problems, from the elderly to
the young, from the healthy to the infirm, and from the strong to the frail. Some of these
organisations provide what can be described as ambulance care for those who cannot be
cured, and some support those in need. However, there is already a growing realisation in
Napier of the possibilities inherent in preventive services, and a realisation that many of the
social problems in the city arise from difficulties within the family, rather than simply from
those of the individual citizen. While it is recognised that there is a need to deal with
recurring problems that arise within the family from financial need, mental illness, and child
delinquency, it is also hoped that appropriate action might break the chain of events
whereby difficulties and problem situations carry their effects from one generation to
another. The sins of the father will be visited on the children up to the fourth or fifth
generation. We hope we can break that cycle.
In 1971 it was found in Napier that there had been a dramatic increase in the number of
children referred to the Department of Social Welfare. Research showed that the children
who appeared in the children's court came from homes of which only 1 in 14 could be
regarded as satisfactory. That classification was accorded those homes, not in the main on
account of low material standards-there were only three of those-nor because of financial
difficulties there were only six with those-but predominantly because of poor standards of
parenthood. In 13 homes, the children suffered from the attention of multiple parents, 29
children had separated parents, 7 had de facto parents, in 15 homes there was parental
disharmony, and drink was the basic problem in 11 homes. Truancy and repeated appear-
ances in the children's court were prevalent; indeed, 99 children came into this category.
The Department of Social Welfare concluded that, if a more definite and continuing
counselling service could be made available to the families of these children, they could be
provided with a better basis for the adjustment of their social problems. Such a move would,
of course, require a good deal more time and attention from the department's own workers,
and it was decided that the only way this could be found was by enlisting more voluntary
social workers to undertake the preventive side of the job. Consequently, a scheme was
initiated to recruit voluntary social workers, who would be trained by the professionals in the
department and guided by them in their preventive work. Volunteers were accordingly
recruited from business people, housewives, nurses, and many others.
The guiding light in these momentous changes in Napier was Mr Ivan Wilson, who is in
charge of the social workers of the Department of Social Welfare. He has been ably assisted
by Mrs Dorothy Chambers, an honorary social worker of considerable competence who has
assumed the role of guiding the volunteers in their training and their work. Professional
social workers gave these volunteers their initial theoretical, personal, and practical training.
This occurred each week until the volunteers were capable and confident enough to go out to
their allotted families. It was found that two or three families was the maximum that could be
handled by any one voluntary social worker; otherwise their own families were affected. The
youth aid section of the Police Department and the children's and young persons' court for
the most part referred these families to the Department of Social Welfare for help.
Each week a briefing session with further teaching is held, involving the voluntary social
workers as well as their supervising honorary social worker and the professionals from the
17.


## p. 2068 (#524) ###########################################

2068
10 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
department. They discuss the problems they have encountered in their attempts to help the
families, and, of course, they preserve confidentiality. Cases are written up so that there is a
record on file for follow-up or further study.
As a result of this scheme, a task that would otherwise have been impossible and soul
destroying for the department has been brought within reach of achievement simply by
mobilising the talents, good will, and energy of people in the community who are willing and
able to help in this work. In this way, they themselves are provided with an outlet for their
desire to perform good works, many families and individuals are helped to overcome their
personal or financial problems, and officers of the Department of Social Welfare are helped
to maintain a balance through contact and work with a variety of people—not just those with
apparently insuperable difficulties—and thus they have more time to devote to State wards
and other children under their legal protection. I believe there are at the moment more than
600 children under preventive supervision in the district.
It has been considered by departmental officers, and Mr Wilson in particular, that it is
fruitless to work with only the families. There is a need for the children to be given some
formal training at all levels of education to help guide them to be wise parents in the future. I
said earlier that the problem underlying these social difficulties was found to be inadequate
parenthood. The aim is to try to encourage the children to become adequate parents when
their turn comes. As a result, Mr Ivan Wilson has developed a scheme using the depart-
ment's professional social workers to train and organise specially selected voluntary social
workers to lead discussions with small groups of children in the schools on subjects related to
life and living. The aim is to develop character, conscientiousness, personality, sociability,
and communication. The instructors seek to develop sensitivity, integrity, and reliability as
well as drive, enthusiasm, and confidence, and also to inculcate a proper attitude to work,
sport, and play, and to show the importance of maintaining good health and appearance.
They also seek to teach the children self-respect and how to achieve a good relationship with
other people, be they family, friends, or strangers.
A pilot scheme was started by the Department of Social Welfare in an attempt to help
the Taradale High School with its truancy problems. Representatives of the youth aid section
of the Police Department, officers of the Department of Maori Affairs, visiting teachers, and
social workers started talking with classes on a regular basis. This attempt to come to terms
with some of the problems of young people and to discuss them openly was seen as an
essential part of school activity, because it helped to create a better balance between the
purely academic approach and the social awareness aspect of their education. Attempts were
then made to set up a regular full-time programme using volunteers as group discussion
leaders, and eventually the programme became known as "Discussion in Schools". At
present it is operating in Napier Girls High School as well as Taradale High School, and
deals with fourth form classes.
There are 16 regular discussion group leaders and 5 emergency volunteers, who take
over whenever there is any sort of breakdown in the availability of volunteer teachers. The
volunteers come from various backgrounds, and include housewives, former school
teachers, former social workers, former nurses, an engineer, and other suitably qualified and
interested people. Each spends a total of about 15 hours every week leading discussion
groups. It has been found that half an hour is too short for a discussion period, and that 45
minutes is about right. Before and after the group sessions, the volunteers get together for
about a quarter of an hour to discuss their problems or the approach they will adopt, and to
present material they are currently using in their group discussions. The sessions after the
discussions are usually the most fruitful for the group leaders, because by sharing their
experiences they are able to learn a great deal from each other. Those who are finding the
going difficult get valuable advice from others who have already experienced similar
problems. Obviously, too, discussion leaders have an opportunity to discuss new subject-
matter and to evaluate its worth in the programme.
Precis sheets are produced of specific topics for each week's discussion, but these are
now used only as a general guide. It has been found desirable to maintain flexibility so that
the discussion can develop along the lines apparently desired by the children in the group.
The aim of the discussion is to develop an understanding of relationships with other people
and the nature of the communication involved, to develop an understanding of individual
growth through self-awareness, and to develop an understanding of the relationship between
feelings, attitudes, values, and behaviour. The subject-matter produced for discussion,
therefore, attempts to present to the children real situations which influenced the lives of
group members.


## p. 2069 (#525) ###########################################

10 August
2069
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Often the precis sheets that have been prepared by the workers beforehand are
discarded after the first 5 minutes or so, or perhaps not even used at all, simply because the
group has some particular matter it wishes to discuss, or moves off into another area
altogether that interests it at the time. No effort is made to draw a group back to the original
topic, because it is considered that if a group wants to discuss something else the children will
benefit more from that than if they are forced to discuss what the leader wants them to
discuss. This freedom, of course, is controlled to the extent that the leader does not allow the
group to waste time discussing unfruitful topics, and can guide the lines on which the
discussion will develop. A great deal depends on the skill of the discussion leaders in
maintaining a controlled informality on the one hand, but still fulfilling the role of facilitator
or leader of the discussion on the other.
These discussions give an opportunity to young people to develop, in a controlled but
informal atmosphere, the ability to evaluate themselves, to think about themselves in
relation to others, and to try to form a clear understanding of why and how they function as a
part of society. So far, these discussion groups in schools have been taking place mainly in
fourth form classes, but it is felt that such a programme should exist, suitably adjusted to fit
in with class and age level, in all schools from primary and intermediate to secondary.
One other aspect of social welfare I want to consider is a matter that has been dealt with
in Taradale. Following up an idea put to them by Dr Woodhouse, Mr and Mrs Dawson of
that suburb proposed to a public meeting on 12 August 1975, just on 2 years ago, that the
Taradale Senior Citizens Association should be established not merely to cater for elderly
people in need, but more particularly to provide companionship for people over the age of
60, who all too often were living in isolation, cut off from other people in their community,
and often feeling they were no longer wanted by society. Within a month of that meeting, the
Dawsons had arranged for the first hot dinner to be served to the first members of the
Taradale Senior Citizens Association, in the gymnasium of the Taradale Football Club. The
association stayed in those premises until the beginning of the 1976 football season, when the
club wanted the gymnasium. The association then arranged to rent the St. John hall in
Taradale.
Now the association has 320 members, all aged 60 years or over, and up to 50 hot
dinners are served each day-with an average of 35. Volunteers come in every day to
prepare and cook the dinner, local suppliers help with the provisions, and association
members pay 60c and sit down to a good substantial meal. At the centre there is a library,
provision for indoor bowls, a snooker table, card tables, and a spinning wheel and a loom for
weaving in addition to materials for making mats. Once a week, two children from Taradale
High School come along to the centre to help serve dinner to the elderly people, and there is
great competition in the high school to take up this task. The hospital board sends four new
nursing students from each intake for a day at a time to work with and help the elderly
people and to see what they are really like, before they start working in the geriatric wards of
the hospital. They find elderly people in a friendly and happy environment.
At present the centre is open from about 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., 5 days a week, but I have
been given the honour, on Friday of this week-2 years to the day from the original
meeting of deputising for the Minister of Health at the opening of the new Taradale
Friendship Centre, which will be the permanent home of the Taradale Senior Citizens
Association. Mr and Mrs Dawson and their committee of 16 other people have been very
busily engaged in fund raising for this project. The $16,000 they have raised has been
matched by a 3:1 subsidy of $48,000 provided by the Social Service Council from Golden
Kiwi lottery funds. The Napier City Council gave the association the use of a section in
Taradale, and the council's architect drew up plans for the new building. The association has
purchased crockery, cutlery, and furniture from funds raised locally.
The most important part of the scheme is not the provision of a hall, not the provision of
meals-a hot meal each day—but the hand of friendship that is extended. Although at first
many people are shy, or reluctant to become involved, Mr and Mrs Dawson and their
helpers soon see to it that all are made to feel welcome and wanted, and a very happy,
friendly atmosphere greets all comers. I am led to believe that one friendship has blossomed
not only into romance but into marriage, and I have heard rumours that more than one may
be on the way. I hope so.
There is no doubt in my mind that the Taradale Senior Citizens Association has not only
helped to keep many elderly people out of hospital, but has encouraged them to become
actively involved in their community. I feel certain that the example set in Taradale could
well be followed in other places to the mutual benefit of the elderly and those who care for


## p. 2070 (#526) ###########################################

2070
10 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
them. These two activities, the Taradale Centre for the Elderly and the work being
undertaken by the voluntary workers under Ivan Wilson and the Department of Social
Welfare in Napier, are two things that I think should be taken up and copied elsewhere in
New Zealand.
Although the number of children under preventive supervision throughout New
Zealand has declined from 4565 in 1965 to 3600 in 1975, in Napier there has been an increase
in that period from 230 to more than 600. The work of the Department of Social Welfare in
Napier has resulted in children's being cared for in situations where there is a great need for
them to be cared for. Indeed, nearly 20 percent of the preventive supervision in New
Zealand is being carried out in Napier City under the aegis of the Department of Social
Welfare.
Mr ROGERS (Onehunga): This year's Budget is disastrous for the working people. The
62 pages of last year's Budget were a disaster.
Mr Lithgow: The same colour.
Mr ROGERS: The 1977 Budget has 65 pages and is the same colour. It opens with the
same words as the 1976 Budget, but ends with a blank page. That is what the Budget
amounts to. This year Government members have said the same things as they said about the
1976 Budget. They have spoken about New Zealand and the world economy, the balance of
payments, and have said that the outlook will depend upon three factors-growth in export
production, access to markets, and demand for our exports. That spells disaster for the
National Government. The NAFTA agreement is a complete disaster, and no other country
can improve it. World demand and market access are largely beyond our power and
influence. The National Government has created a disaster in overseas relations, and it is
now harder to obtain market access than under the Labour Government.
The Budget has plenty of words, but does not say very much. Page 11 of the Budget
states that farming is our greatest single earner of overseas income. Everyone would agree
with that. The Budget also states: "The Government is determined that farmers be given
every incentive to undertake the substantial investment required if increases in farm
production are to be achieved." Turning over the page, one reads the heading, “Rural
lending interest rates". The interest rates have been increased to 8.5 percent. Production is
to be increased, and up go the interest rates.
On the next page the heading reads, "Fertiliser and lime subsidies". The first paragraph
is similar to the 1976 Budget and reads: "As . . . in last year's Budget, the Government's
objective is to ensure that the rate of fertiliser application is kept at a level which allows both
adequate soil maintenance and development needs." In 1976 the National Government
slashed fertiliser subsidies by $10.79 a tonne, and this year has reduced the subsidy from $25
a tonne to $22.50 a tonne. The Government has said that it will subsidise transport, but
everyone knows that the cost of transport has increased, so there is no advantage for the
farmer. I hope a few farmers are tuned in, because I want to tell them that in 1978 the
Labour Party will have a good farming policy. The Opposition has a good spokesman on
farming, and he will look after the farmers in 1978.
Page 28 of the Budget states: "Demand in the building and construction industry has
eased over the past 18 months consistent with the Government's policy . . . ". For the
building industry this Government is a complete disaster. There is a good one on page 30:
"Tax rebate for rates on owner-occupied homes. Beginning on 1 April 1978 the principal
income earner of a family will be entitled to a tax rebate of up to $25 per annum on rates paid
...". Why could it not have been from 1 April 1977? Under the Moneylenders Act, interest
rates will be increased from 10 percent to 15 percent. That is the National Government
playing into the moneylenders' hands. Under this Budget the rich will get richer and the poor
worker, the wage earners, and the businessman will suffer. It was the same last year.
Listen to this: "After only 20 months in office the Government can claim . . . our terms
of trade are still depressed and the balance of payments deficit is still far too high. .
inflation... is still a serious and urgent problem. . . . I believe New Zealanders have the
resources, the strength, and the courage to win out." I firmly believe that, too, but not under
the National Party. We have already mentioned how far into debt we are. Then we come to
the blank page that sums up the Budget. Every Budget must be considered in relation to the
economic measures that preceded it, and in relation to its economic consequences for the
country in the future. Saving money in the short term is not a long-term answer to our
economic problems.
Mr Talbot: Who told you that?
Mr ROGERS: The member knows it is correct. Members opposite are well awake to


## p. 2071 (#527) ###########################################

10 August
2071
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that. The biggest problem faced by New Zealand in 1975-76 was the excess of imports over
export income. Everyone knows that. In 1976, export income rose by more than $1 billion,
but every measure taken by the Government to control imports—and it did not take
many-failed miserably. This Government makes a lot of supposed savings in Government
spending. Members opposite believe they have something to crow about because of the cuts
in subsidies and the doubling of many Government charges, which increased Government
revenue last year by $560 million. At the same time the Government snatched an extra $670
million in taxation from the workers and small businessmen. In 1976-77 New Zealand had an
increase of $1 billion in export receipts, and an increase in Government revenue because of a
reduction in Government spending, which totalled $1,230 million. It does sound good,
doesn't it?
Let us look at some of the problems caused by the doubling of charges and the slashing
of subsidies. The Government has chosen to ignore these problems in the Budget. I want to
talk about some of the problems in my electorate of Onehunga. We have a half-completed
motorway that feeds into Beachcroft Avenue and has created serious congestion. Where are
the measures in the Budget to deal with that? The completion of the Onehunga motorway is
imperative. It has the support of the local residents, and it has my support. If a job is started
it must be finished. The completion of the motorway was provided for in the estimates under
the Labour Government and it would have been completed in 1976, but the National
Government has removed it from the estimates, which shows just how concerned it is for the
people of Onehunga. The Mt. Roskill Borough Council, the Onehunga Borough Council,
and the people of Onehunga all want the job finished, and I call on the Minister of Works
and Development to wake up and finish the job.
What is the Minister of Education doing for the people of Onehunga? The building of
the Onehunga and Ellerslie primary schools is a year behind schedule, and the people of
Onehunga are tired of waiting. They know what the National Government is up to. They
know it is deliberately delaying the building of these schools until 1978. They know that the
man with his head in the clouds-the president of the National Party-seriously believes that
his party can win Onehunga next year. Let me tell him now that it will take more than a
few election bribes and a multimillion-dollar public relations campaign to take Onehunga
away from the ordinary people who live there. They know what the Onehunga Labour Party
stands for, and what the New Zealand Labour Party stands for. They know what Frank
Rogers stands for, and they know what Frank Rogers will do to look after them. The people
of Onehunga will win in 1978. Frank Rogers will win in 1978. The people of Onehunga have
no time whatever for the pipe dreams of the National Party. Frank Rogers has no pipe
dreams about his ability to win that seat, and he is making sure that in no way will National
have any part of Onehunga in 1978. The National Party has wiped its boots on the people of
New Zealand for too long; I certainly will do my bit, as will the people of Onehunga, to drive
the National Government out of its cottonwool-padded office, and back into the dark ages
where it belongs.
We have a man on the Government benches who calls himself the Minister of Housing.
I want to know, and the people of Onehunga want to know, what he is doing to develop the
Crown sections in Onehunga. What is he doing to develop sections at One Tree Hill,
Oranga, and Te Papapa? What is he doing for the young people, the young families, and the
elderly people who would dearly like to be housed on this land? Many people in my
electorate rent private accommodation. They want to buy sections and build houses, but
under the National Government they just cannot do this. On election day in 1978 the people
of Onehunga will remember this. The people have the right to be housed where they want to
live, at a cost they can afford and in an environment in which they feel they belong. I am
going to make sure they get that chance. The people of New Zealand have been ignored by
the National Government for too long.
Another problem in Onehunga is the extension to Pike's Point. Last year, a Bill was
rushed through the House, but the extension to Pike's Point, as far as Frank Rogers is
concerned, will not go ahead. The people of Onehunga will not allow it to go ahead. The
Auckland Regional Authority has been warned that we do not want it, and let me warn the
authority again that the people will have no part of it at all. There will be no more Pike's
Point in Onehunga, and we will not allow Ministers, because they cut out loan money for
pulverising plants, to write secret letters to the Auckland Regional Authority saying that the
rubbish will be dumped in Onehunga. I can tell the National Government that this is not on.
Let me talk about another member opposite, who calls himself the Minister of
Transport. In 1975 he promised to revitalise coastal shipping services. The people of


## p. 2072 (#528) ###########################################

2072
10 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Onehunga are still waiting for the Minister to revitalise the coastal shipping service so that
the Onehunga port facilities can be given the boost they urgently need. The people of
Onehunga want a revitalised coastal shipping service, and they are sick and tired of listening
to the Government's empty promises. Onehunga has the port facilities, and it is time the
Government woke up and made full use of those facilities.
Twenty months of National Government administration has meant 20 months of neglect
for the people of Onehunga. The people of Onehunga want schools, and under this
Government they cannot have them. The people of Onehunga want houses, but under this
Government they cannot have them. The people of Onehunga want their motorway
finished, but under this Government the needs of the people of Onehunga are forgotten.
The people of Onehunga want port facilities to be used to revitalise the coastal shipping
service, but under this Government coastal shipping has been driven to the wall. The people
of Onehunga deserve better, and under the Labour Government in 1978 they are going to
get a better deal. The National Government is interested only in power. It does not care
about people, and it never has. Once and for all I am going to tell the National Government
that it is people who matter; that will be the policy of the Labour Party in 1978.
Let us look at housing, which has been destroyed by the National Government. During
the 1975 election campaign, the National Party promised to make finance available for those
people who needed housing. However, it ignored the fact that the third Labour Government
had succeeded in housing more people during its 3 years in office than any other Govern-
ment in the country's history. Such an achievement in 1978 will help the building industry,
and will encourage the carpenters and other experienced people, who were driven out of the
country by the National Government, to return. The people who are doing well today are
the speculators and the moneylenders. In 1978, the Labour Government will control interest
rates and make sure that the people of New Zealand get a fair deal.
In 1975, the then Leader of the Opposition, now the Prime Minister, stomped around
the country with a gleam in his little beady eyes deploring the level of State involvement in
housing. He claimed that the country was being increasingly divided into two groups—those
with and those without State houses. He promised to downgrade the Housing Corporation's
role, and to encourage greater private sector involvement in house building. As with all
National Government measures, balancing the books has become an end in itself. The goal
of creating a better society has been forgotten; it has been sacrificed to narrow short-term
economic goals. Housing Corporation lending has been slashed back by more than $100
million, and lending assistance to those on lower incomes has been cut back to the bone.
During the last year of the third Labour Government, more than 7000 low-income families
were provided with housing loans.
Let us look at the figures under the National Government. Housing loans have been cut
back to less than 4000, family benefit capitalisations have been reduced from 6012 to 2238,
and the total number of loans has been reduced to 8420, compared to that of 11 659 under
Labour and members opposite are proud of it. Those figures are only to the end of March
this year. I predict that the next statistics will show a dramatic drop in the number of housing
loans. In simple terms, the National Government has slashed back Housing Corporation
lending, despite its promise not to do so. In 1975 the National Party said that it would not cut
back the number of corporation loans until the number of private sector loans had been
increased. It is clear that the private sector was not ready. The pressures on private mortgage
finance have forced the Northern Building. Society to cut back the size of its loans, and to
advise new shareholders that there will be a 4-year wait for funds, compared with a 2-year
wait in 1975. The AMP Society, one of the largest insurance companies in New Zealand, has
refused to accept further loan applications after March 1977. The Wellington
Savings Bank withdrew from the mortgage market for 4 months, the longest period for which
the bank has had to suspend home lending finance.
The number of forced home sales has reached a new level. Despite this, the Govern-
ment phased out the Public Trust's refinancing fund, and Housing Corporation refinance
lending has been slashed by more than 60 percent. In the 20 months of the National
Government, mortgage interest rates have broken all previous records. The average
mortgage interest rate registered in March 1977 was 10.94 percent-two points higher than
in 1975—and second mortgage rates now often carry 18 percent to 23 percent true interest.
The private sector is not and will not be in a position to review the size of first mortgage
loans, and the Government has kept Housing Corporation loans pegged to a lousy $14,000.
In other words, the Government is responsible for creating a demand for high-cost, short-
term mortgages. The fringe finance is having a field day, and when Labour returns to power


## p. 2073 (#529) ###########################################

10 August
2073
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
in 1978 thousands of unsatisfactory mortgages will need to be refinanced.
Members opposite are laughing, but they can rest assured that people wish they had a
Labour Government right now. We would not be in the economic mess we are in under the
National Government. Thousands have had their housing demands supressed by the
Government, just as thousands did in 1973. In simple terms, in 20 months the National
Government has created a housing market in which only the wealthy and the two-income
households can afford the crippling repayments. In 20 months, the National Government has
doubled the cost of servicing mortgages. It has doubled the repayment burden on families
whose only crime has been the desire to be adequately housed. My advice to the 27 National
members in marginal seats is to get out now, and avoid the rush and the dump-out in
November next year.
The 1977 Budget gave the Government the chance to assist the run-down housing
industry, but it refused to take that opportunity. There were no measures in the Budget to
check the ruinous spiral of Interest rates. Companies can no longer afford to borrow money
for capital development, and would-be home owners cannot afford the sky-rocketing
repayment burdens. There is no provision in the Budget to reduce the repayment burden on
would-be home owners, except for some minor tinkering with Housing Corporation interest
rates; in the long term, that will have the opposite effect. There has been no move to extend
the terms of Housing Corporation loans, to make better use of variable mortgage repayment
schemes, or to increase the chances of obtaining first mortgage loans, thereby easing the
pressure on the poor family man with a second mortgage. There has been no move to
introduce a second-mortgage support scheme, and the $5.8 million provided through the
Post Office 8 weeks ago is so pitifully inadequate that only the first two or three applicants to
a post office will have any chance of getting a loan.
The only people who can feel happy with the Budget are the moneylenders, some of
whom get $500 from the public purse as a rebate for providing mortgage finance at the
National Government's high interest rates. In simple terms, would-be home owners are
struggling under a hopeless tax burden to subsidise the rich who are in a position to lend
mortgage money. The Budget means that the single-income family, through taxation, has to
reward the moneylenders who provide mortgages for two-income families and those who
need them least. The Budget provides $35 million through the trustee savings banks. That
will amount to about 19 mortgages for two-income families and the rich, to replace the 4000
mortgages taken away from the Housing Corporation and from those on single and modest
incomes, who really need the help.
Richard Walls: Absolute rubbish!
Mr ROGERS: The member says, "Absolute rubbish!" This is a rich man's Budget if
ever there was one. Even Housing Corporation lending rates have gone up to 8 percent. I
remind Government members that the mortgage interest rate is now 8 percent. When the
National Government assumed office it was 5 percent. Last year it was increased from
5 to 7 percent, and now it has been increased again to 8 percent. That indicates the type of
policy the Government implements. As a result, Housing Corporation clients will now have
to pay an additional $7,200 in interest over the term of the average 30-year loan.
The housing provisions in the Budget, and the housing policies implemented by the
Government in the past 20 months, are all nails in the Government's coffin, in its endeavours
to spell the end of democracy for potential home owners in this country. In fact, the
Government has created a mortgage-owning democracy in which home purchasers are
struggling under crippling repayment burdens. They have to work at two or three jobs, and
they and their families are suffering at the hands of the merciless money-grubbing friends of
Government members. I hope the member for Dunedin North is listening. I worked for 3
years in the taxi industry. I worked hard during that time, and I say this to him—
Richard Walls: Read that part again.
Mr ROGERS: The member for Dunedin North is the one who snaps watch straps while
taking a leaf from his leader's book. He is the man who bashes demonstrators over the head.
I warn him now that the writing is on the wall and that he will not represent the Dunedin
North electorate in the House after 1978.
Richard Walls: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I think the member for
Onehunga has become slightly carried away. I should like him to name his source of
reference, or to tell us what he is reading from, because he is putting undue emphasis on a
statement that is not correct.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I do not think we need to waste any further time on this point.
It was a frivolous point of order, lightly raised. I remind honourable members that they have


## p. 2074 (#530) ###########################################

2074
10 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the right to raise points of order at any time, but that they should not abuse that right in any
way.
Mr ROGERS: I can hand it out just as quickly, as hard, and as fast as any Government
member and I am sick and tired of hearing the member for Dunedin North, week after week,
making derogatory remarks about the taxi industry. I now turn to the Post Office, which the
Government promised to restore to efficiency and profitability. Last year the National
Government boosted postal charges and Post Office earnings by $101 million, to make up for
a deficit of $38 million. However, it was not satisfied with that effort. First it doubled the
charges, and next it reduced rural mail deliveries. Then it chopped back the number of
suburban post-box clearances and reduced the capital works programme by $10 million. The
construction of 38 new telephone exchanges and line depots was postponed, although the
work was urgently required by the building industry. At the same time, 33 000 people are on
the waiting list for telephones. What has the National Government done to overcome that
problem? Of course, it took a typical course of action and raised telephone rentals to $120 a
year, so that the elderly people on fixed incomes will not be able to afford a telephone.
However, the Government has no worries about them; it decided that that was the manner
in which its telephone problems would be solved, and that was it.
At the same time, Government members claim that the Post Office provides an efficient
service. In the past 12 months, the charges have been doubled and the services slashed. In
the Budget the Postmaster-General has whipped in and grabbed another $54 million from
the people. As a consequence, we will see a run-down in the efficiency of the Post Office,
because people can afford to pay only so much for their telephones and their postage. The
other night a telephone caller said to me, "Mr Rogers, I do not think I will be able to afford
the extra postage charges."
It will take more than $2 million worth of fancy advertising to convince the people of
New Zealand at the next election that the most disastrous event in New Zealand for many
years has not been the present Prime Minister, who, with his pack of National Party
members, has been destroying our economy and ignoring the needs of the people. We are
certainly looking forward to 1978, when a Labour Government will be returned to look after
the people's needs.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): I thank the member for Onehunga for his interesting and
entertaining speech. At least it kept everyone awake, which is more than his leader's speech
did, and for that I congratulate him. His speech started in a rather halting, strange fashion,
and I could not quite work out why it covered blank pages in Budgets, but all of a sudden he
moved into top gear, and I realised that, of course, he was giving his selection speech. I do
not wish to be unkind to the member for Onehunga, because in this Chamber, where there is
a certain loyalty between members whatever their party, there is a high degree of sympathy
for the member for Onehunga for what members of his own party are doing to him in his
electorate. I want the member for Onehunga to know that many people on this side of the
House are in there battling for him, because we think he is not too much of a bad bloke.
However, I think I should give him a word of warning, because he is at peril in his
electorate. In local matters, it is important for a member to tune in to what is happening.
Three points he made stand to backfire on him if he is not careful. First, he said he wanted to
see that motorway finished. He apparently overlooked the fact that people's attitudes to
motorways have changed and, if that motorway had been finished to the original plan, which
has since been modified, it would have carved up half his electorate and most of my own
electorate; the local people do not want this. Secondly, he said that he had warned the
Auckland Regional Authority that there would be no more Pike's Point. He should be aware
that, in fact, it was a Labour member of the ARA who said there would be no more Pike's
Point. He will get into trouble with his own party if he is not careful.
Finally, he mentioned Onehunga Primary School, and said he did not want to see any
bribes. Well, I am afraid I have some bad news for the member for Onehunga. If he had
bothered to follow up the real interests of Onehunga Primary School, he would have known
that approval has already been given for land clearing, drive improvements, sewer improve-
ments, and upgrading of floorings, plus major rebuilding, at a total cost of $500,000, to be
spent this year. I know about it because I take an interest in the schools in the general area,
but the member for Onehunga did not know what had already been approved, which was
that over $500,000 was approved to be spent on the primary school, money that the Labour
Government was not prepared to spend. That project languished for 3 years under the
Labour Government and the Labour member, but under the National Government $500,000
is being spent. I hope that the member for Onehunga does not try to take any credit for that,


## p. 2075 (#531) ###########################################

10 August
2075
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
because he said in this House that he did not want Onehunga Primary School to be used as
an election bribe next year. My point is that the work is being done this year, not as an
election bribe, and the member did not know about it.
I have the utmost sympathy for the member for Onehunga. He is not a bad bloke, but, if
he wants to survive the sort of political battle he is facing locally, he should take my advice
and keep in touch with what is happening with the primary schools and with the education
board in that area. He should keep close to the people. If he does not, he will be in great
peril. I am one of those who think it would be a shame if he was, because he is not such a bad
member and, from our point of view, he is jolly harmless.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 6.30 p.m.


## p. 2076 (#532) ###########################################

2076
11 August
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
THURSDAY, 11 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
PERSONAL EXPLANATION
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): With the leave of the House I wish to
make a personal explanation. Yesterday, when the House was debating a private member's
notice of motion about the attendance of members or associates of the New Zealand Labour
Party at a demonstration at the Dunedin Town Hall on Friday 22 July, in response to a
request from the member for Roskill I named four such persons as being present upon
assurance that there was supporting evidence for their identification. I am now advised that
the identification of a Mr Norman L. Gough, a taxi driver, rested on a letter of his published
in the Otago Daily Times of 26 July. I readily acknowledge that the letter does not justify the
charge I made. I accept unreservedly Mr Gough's statement that he was not present. I
therefore take this earliest opportunity of withdrawing my charge against Mr Gough, and
apologising for my mistake.
NOTICE OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move, That
this House notes with outrage that the Prime Minister's press secretary, who is paid by the
taxpayer, it is rumoured, over $18,000 a year, and the Head of the Prime Minister's
Department, who is paid by the taxpayer $25,508 a year, have issued press statements dated
10 August 1977 not only distorting what a member of this House has said, but threatening by
innuendo a libel action against an elected member of this House who has acted in good faith,
and is paid $12,565 a year; and this House asks, are the press statements official Government
statements, and is the taxpayer, who has paid for the Prime Minister's libel actions, now
expected to pay for libel actions launched by the Prime Minister's Department against a
member of Parliament; and this House records that this latest action by the Prime Minister's
Department is yet another reason why the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which in the past ran
the Prime Minister's Department, should be asked to take over that department again.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I
wonder if it complies with the spirit and the rules of the House that one member, using the
privilege and the sanctuary of the House, should carry out a vendetta with persons outside
this House who have no way of defending themselves against the allegations made inside the
House. I can understand if it happens once, but I draw your attention to the fact that this has
been happening for several days. The honourable member has won his nomination for
Auckland Central, and no longer needs to walk across the headlines.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): Speaking to the point of order, the suggestion made
by the Minister of Energy Resources is that something in this notice of motion somehow
libels a member of the public, or a member of the public services. I deny that—
Hon. G. F. Gair: Repeat it outside the House.
Mr PREBBLE: I have said outside the House that I am concerned about the power of
the Prime Minister's Department, and I have also said outside the House, in response to a
challenge publicly made by the Prime Minister, that if he wants to look for the source of the
leak he should look for those who have a motive, and therefore, he should start with those in
the Prime Minister's Department who knew what was in the Budget. I do not believe that
that statement is in any way slanderous, and, as the Minister of Justice has said in the House,
it is my duty to state my suspicions.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): I draw your attention to Speaker's
ruling 82/1, which states that temperate and decorous language should be used with regard to
persons outside Parliament. I suggest to you that it is out of order for a member of the House
to use the privilege of the House to describe an individual's appointment as a political
appointment when the member knows that individual to be a public servant duly appointed
by the processes laid down in legislation. [Interruption.] I do not have to struggle against the
honourable member, and if he supports that sort of thing then he disgraces himself; and I


## p. 2077 (#533) ###########################################

11 August
2077
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
know that some members opposite bow their heads in shame at the utterances of the
honourable member.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! I cannot permit this terminology to be continued, especially
during discussion of a point of order. I suggest that other members of the House refrain from
saying things that would make it more likely that inappropriate language will be used in the
discussion of a point of order.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I simply suggest to you that, in accordance with the tradition
and practice of the House, the honourable member is totally out of order. He knows that the
charges he has made are unfounded, and knowing that, he should apologise.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): I make the observation that the
notice of motion has been accepted after being scrutinised by yourself or persons represent-
ing you, as notices of motion are, before being introduced in the House. The reason the
notice of motion has been given is an unresolved question of a Budget leak, and the apparent
refusal of the Prime Minister to determine the cause of the leak. The Acting Prime Minister,
who seems ready to lurch to his feet again, has spoken about political appointments to the
Prime Minister's Department. It was never argued that some of the appointments are
political, but apparently the Acting Prime Minister considers some of the appointments are
not political. Since they are clearly of a political nature the member for Auckland Central is
in order in making the comment that political appointments are part and parcel of the Prime
Minister's Department. I am as aware as the Acting Prime Minister is that most of the
employees in the Prime Minister's Department are not political appointments, but are
officers of many Government departments who serve successive Governments well. That
does not change the fact that some appointments are clearly of a political nature.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I imagine that there is no argument from either side that the
notice of motion given by the member for "Nowhere in Particular"-[Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We don't need a chorus of 35 people at the same time.
Mr McLAY: There is no argument from either side of the House that the member's
notice of motion is offensive in the extreme, but that is not the matter that has been raised in
the point of order: it is its admissibility. In his notice of motion the member referred to the
salary of the press officer, and said that the amount of the salary was a rumour. Every
member knows that he is required to verify the facts in a notice of motion. Often the Clerk's
office will ask for verification of facts in a notice of motion. In that respect alone the notice of
motion is out of order.
Dr WALL (Porirua): I should like to take up the point raised by the last speaker. The
statement in the notice of motion was not that the salary was such and such a figure, except
for the member who is paid by the State, and whose salary is known. The statement was that
there is a rumour, and it is impossible to make an affirmative statement about a rumour. The
content of the rumour was that the salary is such and such an amount. Surely the fact that
other people are aware that there is a rumour is confirmation. I am sure the member giving
notice of the motion would have no difficulty in producing half a dozen witnesses to confirm
in writing that they have heard the rumour. That is an affirmative statement and can quite
easily be verified.
Originally you were asked to rule the notice of motion out of order because it was
offensive-not because of any particular words, but because the tone of the motion was not
in keeping with Speaker's ruling 82/1. That is an admirable ruling and one we should all do
well to observe. We must face the reality that within the last few days we have seen that rule
honoured in its breach more frequently than in its observance. If you overrule the notice of
motion on the grounds of the recent rulings, to be consistent in your ruling you would have
to go through several pages of Hansard of the last few days where references have been
made to members outside the House in anything but temperate language, and ask that those
matters be reopened and withdrawn.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): I draw your attention to the fact
that what is at stake is not an individual in Parliament, but the reputation of Parliament.
Immediately after the House met this afternoon my colleague the Minister of Justice
apologised for a statement he had made, not for himself, but for Parliament, because, having
made the statement, he discovered he was wrong. He had no proof of the statement, and
what he had based his statement on was wrong. His action was not to preserve his own name,
but to preserve the reputation of Parliament.
In continuing this vendetta the member for Auckland Central is not offering any proof
or supporting evidence, and he has no facts to authenticate his statement. The Leader of the
Opposition does himself and the House no good by lending his support to these utterances


## p. 2078 (#534) ###########################################

2078
11 August
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
when he knows there is no proof. The Leader of the Opposition knows that the only way to
establish whether the statement is right or wrong is to have certain members of the press
gallery say so. There is no other way of finding out the facts. He can say what he will about
the Prime Minister carrying out an investigation, but he knows that the only way of
discovering the truth is if the two members of the press gallery state that there is no truth in
the allegation. The member for Auckland Central has already said that he has not been
talking about Cabinet, the Legislative Department, or Treasury officers, and when the
Leader of the Opposition supports the member he clears those people by inference, but joins
in an attack on an individual who was at home in bed ill. The member for Auckland Central
knows that to be a fact, but he exercises the privilege of Parliament to maintain a vendetta.
He does Parliament no good, and neither does he do himself and his electorate any good.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I have two points to make in
reply to what has been said. First, the Acting Prime Minister said that as two journalists do
not wish to make any further statement because they wish to protect their journalist ethics,
there can be no further inquiry by the Government. It is already a well established principle
of British parliamentary procedure that a Minister accepts responsibility for the State secrets
over which he has responsibility. It should be obvious to the Acting Prime Minister that if
there has been a leak in the preparation of the Budget, it is the responsibility-
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: There's no proof of that, and the member knows it.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Now we get interjections during a point of order. He has already
had two runs himself, but he must interject. There is no answer to the claim that one person
has responsibility for the security of Budget information, and if the process of Budget
formation is such that that responsibility is widely shared, the responsibility of the Minister
in charge is not reduced. In British constitutional terms that responsibility would be clearly
sheeted home. That is all I have to say on that point.
The other point was the statement that rumours have been used. It has been rumoured
that somebody gets a certain salary. Last year, as a member of the Public Expenditure
Committee, I sought detailed information on the salaries of some of these people and it was
denied to me. It was refused on the ground that people other than public servants-who
have been seconded from other departments, and whose salaries are known-were being
paid by contract at the rate their private employers paid them. There was no willingness to
reveal the amount of the contract. There was no willingness to reveal the amount of the
salaries of those people, and therefore the member for Auckland Central was justified in
saying that there is a rumour about the salaries. However, I now want to come back to the
main point. Responsibility belongs to one person. If he so organises his departmental affairs
and his overseas travel that he cannot exercise that responsibility, then his first responsibility
is to have some other Minister take on the job. If he does not do that, the responsibility is
his.
Mr BIRCH (Franklin): The comments made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition
have absolutely nothing to do with the question. The question we are arguing is the content
and style of a notice of motion. If you find that the language of the notice of motion is
intemperate or indecorous, then clearly the notice of motion is out of order. I submit that it
is even worse than that. It is slanderous, and if it were said outside the House it would be
libellous. I invite the member to say it outside. It is clearly outside Speaker's ruling 82/1.
If you do find that the notice of motion is acceptable and I do not think you will-we
should look at Speaker's ruling 82/3(1), which reminds the House that there is no Standing
Order to prevent a member commenting in severe terms upon the conduct of any official of
the Government. The Speaker's ruling tells us that it is a matter of taste. The House should
remind the member for Auckland Central that today we have witnessed some very bad taste.
In the interests of good taste he should be invited to withdraw his notice of motion.
Speaker's ruling 82/3(1) continues: "and members should remember that such persons have
no opportunity inside the Chamber to reply or defend themselves". That is fundamental.
This vendetta, which is being conducted in a libellous or slanderous way, should cease, and
the member should withdraw. I submit that the language of the notice of motion is such that
it violates the ruling that temperate and decorous language should be used with regard to
persons outside Parliament.
Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central): I wish to draw attention to the point of order, which
was directed at the notice of motion itself and had nothing to do with the debate on the
Prime Minister's Department. I raised what I believed to be an important constitutional
issue, because I was faced with the position that a public servant, using the taxpayers'
money, appeared to be attacking me.


## p. 2079 (#535) ###########################################

11 August
2079
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Ho, ho!
Mr PREBBLE: For the benefit of the Acting Prime Minister, I understand that the
British tradition is that a Minister speaks for his department himself, and that is what should
have been done here. I point out that in my Budget speech I deliberately did not name any
member of the Prime Minister's Department. I named them in my notice of motion only
because they themselves, at the taxpayers' expense as far as I can understand, issued a press
statement attacking me, and suggesting that if I said something different from what I did say
they would be able to take a libel action against me.
I believe that my notice of motion is perfectly within the Standing Orders. I have always
understood that the Speaker's ruling that refers to temperate and decorous language is an
attempt to prevent people being described as a mob, for instance. I described the Prime
Minister's press secretary and the head of the Prime Minister's Department perfectly
accurately. Finally, I was disturbed by statements from people opposite that I had libelled
somebody. It is not my intention to do that, and because a lawyer is a bad advocate for
himself I referred the matter to my legal advisers who told me that I had not been libellous. I
do not approve of using privilege to attack people. It appears to me that the Prime Minister's
Department is only too willing and able to defend itself.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I do hope, Mr Speaker, that you will not
rest any great authority' on what the member for Auckland Central has just said, because he
has said that officers of the Prime Minister's Department should be taken to task because
they dare to defend themselves against the charges he has made. The member for Franklin
has already referred to Speaker's ruling 82/3(1), which states that members of Parliament
should remember that Government officials have no opportunity inside the Chamber to
reply or defend themselves. I should have thought it was the wish of every member of
Parliament that people who have charges made against them in the Chamber should have the
opportunity, and take it, of defending themselves outside the House.
Speaker's ruling 82/2 states, "The rules concerning the discussion in the House of an
outside individual's private affairs are not clear, but members are supposed to refrain from
bringing the names of individuals into their speeches." There is need for a privilege in the
House, where the public interest is involved, for people outside to be named, and we had a
case yesterday, which has been adverted to, when the member for Roskill asked for names
and they were given. I believe that what we should enforce with greater strictness is Standing
Order 103 with regard to notices of motion, and see that statements of facts or names of
persons, unless they are strictly necessary to render the notice intelligible and can be
authenticated, are not allowed. Indeed, many of the notices of motion introduced by the
member for Auckland Central contain allegations of assertions that cannot be authenticated,
and are known by him to be incapable of authentication. I suggest that Standing Order
103(b) should be applied with greater strictness.
Mr SPEAKER: I do not want to spend the whole afternoon on this matter, but I do not
want to restrict discussion unduly when people feel strongly, and want to speak.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): One question germane to the issue is whether the
words in the motion being discussed are libellous. The member for Franklin asserts with
some confidence that they are. Like myself, he has had no opportunity to consider the words
when listening to them as they were read out. I failed to detect any word or wording that was
defamatory. You, Mr Speaker, will have the opportunity of studying the written word,
giving it careful consideration, and coming to a balanced conclusion.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: He's a right old gasbag today.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member will withdraw that expression, and
apologise.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I withdraw, Mr Speaker, and apologise.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): Mr Speaker, I draw your attention
to Standing Order 103(b), ¨Certain notices not allowed", which states, "Notices of motion
shall not contain any statement of facts or name of any person unless they are strictly
necessary to render the notice intelligible and can be authenticated." The House is entitled
to ask the honourable member to authenticate his statement, for the simple reason that he is
already on record as having said that he is certain the leak did not come from a Cabinet
member, a Treasury source, or the Legislative Department. If the honourable member is
certain of that, then I believe he must be able to authenticate the allegation he now makes,
and he should be called upon to do just that.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): I refer particularly to the last
contribution made by the member for Auckland Central, seeking to justify his action today.


## p. 2080 (#536) ###########################################

2080
11 August
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
He sought to convey the impression that he was defending himself. The fact of the matter is
that motive and provocation are matters that must be considered. I would remind you, Sir,
with respect, and remind the House, that it was the member for Auckland Central who
triggered this whole question in the first place, and who sought with great persistence, while
disregarding the effect the consequences would have on other people's reputations and
casting aspersions on their integrity, to press ahead with this matter so that now, by a process
of elimination, he has concentrated his attention on one small department of State and two
individuals in it. When they sought to say emphatically in defence of themselves that the
accusations were baseless, the member for Auckland Central makes an issue of this, saying,
"Are they spending the taxpayers' money?". Perhaps the statements were typed with a
typewriter owned by the State. Such a response begs the issue. He seeks to hide behind
what, at best, is a technicality from the reality of the serious accusations he has made, and
the serious harm he is doing to the reputation of the House. I invite you, Sir, and I invite
members of the House, to consider which member has contributed more to the lowering of
the tone of the House this year than the member for Auckland Central.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! This is irrelevant. I regret being called upon to rule on a matter
of this sort, and regret it has arisen. I have listened to a wide-ranging discussion. I have
personally deplored the recent trends in the use or abuse of our notice-of-motion procedure,
with the heavy preponderance, as I have said from time to time, of the jab-and-jibe sort of
thing, when notified motions are not really expected to be debated. Now we have an instance
in which it is alleged that the notice of motion procedure is being used for a personal
vendetta, attacking persons outside the House who have no opportunity of replying in the
House, but whose statements in self-defence outside the House are suggested to be a matter
of "outrage❞—to use the word employed in the notice of motion. It is difficult to rule in a
matter like this without appearing to enter into its merits, which are not my province.
Reference was made to Speaker's ruling 82/1, which states, "Temperate and decorous
language should be used with regard to persons outside Parliament", and to the words in
Standing Order 103 that proscribe unbecoming or offensive expressions. I have no doubt in
my mind that the notice of motion is highly offensive, but I am not convinced that any
expressions in the notice of motion are of the type-which I think is intended to mean
unparliamentary type-that should be described or categorised as offensive expressions. I
find the mention of salaries such that many would find it difficult to regard them as anything
other than intended to be hurtful, rather than to be a substantive part of the motion, but that
does not of itself, in my view, amount to the use of an offensive expression.
It was suggested that this notice of motion has doubtless been cleared through the
ordinary procedure-handed in to the Clerk, looked at by him and/or his staff, and perhaps
referred to me. No doubt that has happened. The matter has been referred to me, and I
remember putting a question mark against the words "not only distorting what a member of
this House has said but threatening by innuendo to issue a libel action". I do not know
exactly what has been said that is alleged to have been distorted, but I imagine the words
referred to are "threatening by innuendo a libel action", and I felt I should, when in doubt,
just let them go by. Preventing members from exercising their rights in the House is not my
primary function.
The words that presumably are thought to support the allegation of threatening by
innuendo to issue a libel action seem to be these: "The member's remarks . . ."-said a press
⚫ statement by Mr Symmans, one of those primarily involved by this notice of motion-¨. . .
were made under the complete protection of parliamentary privilege. As they are baseless,
and therefore defamatory, I invite him to repeat his allegations outside Parliament, where he
would not be afforded immunity from legal action. If he is unwilling to put his charges to a
legal test, he should withdraw them." That may or may not amount to threatening by
innuendo to issue a libel action, but, as I was in doubt, I let that point go.
The mere fact that a notice of motion has been through the accepted procedures-and
far too many are now brought to me by my staff; some are rejected outright, some are let go,
and some are let go if amended-does not preclude a member from either side of the House
raising a point of order if he wishes to suggest that the notice of motion does not comply.
Members have raised such points in recent times. It was stated that a civil servant was using
taxpayers' money when attacking somebody. I have difficulty in relating that to the question
of the substance of the matter. Are we not all in this House living by taxpayers' money and
using facilities provided by the taxpayer? It is one of the many points introduced that seem to
me to be offensive, but not to amount to an offensive expression in the sense of "unpar-
liamentary expression", which is how I interpret the phrases in Standing Order 103.


## p. 2081 (#537) ###########################################

11 August
2081
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
I find on balance that a breach of the principle in Speaker's ruling 82/1 has not been
committed. As the matter has been raised at some length, I will have a further look at any
substantiation in the expression "distorting what a member said in the House". However,
my present inclination is that I should, whether or not this type of motion is desirable,
withdraw from it myself and let it in. However, as I said before, I shall look at the
substantiation, if any, of the suggestion of distorting what a member of the House has said.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Community Colleges
1. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: When does he expect
to be able to make an announcement concerning further development of community
colleges?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I announced immediately after the
Budget that the Government had given approval for the establishment of the Northland and
Rotorua Community Colleges from 1 April 1978, and for the translation of Southland
Polytechnic, whose council had sought this move, to community college status from the same
date. Further announcements about the establishment of community colleges will depend on
the development of the work load in the senior technical divisions the Government has now
agreed will be formally established in Wanganui, Timaru, Tauranga, and Gisborne. It will
also depend upon the assessment of all priorities in educational development.
Mr Marshall: Can I take it from the Minister's answer that the towns he listed roughly
form the order of further development of community colleges?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Yes, that would be roughly the order of the establishment of
community colleges.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Industrial Stoppages-Statistics
2. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he indicate whether,
on the latest figures to hand, the marked trend of reduction in industrial stoppages shown in
the first quarter of the year has continued?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The latest provisional figures relating to
industrial stoppages cover the 5 month period that ended in May 1977. These show a marked
reduction in the number of workers involved in industrial stoppages. For the period January
to May 1977 inclusive, 57 960 workers were affected, compared with 80 563 workers during
the same period in 1976.
Mr Elliott: In which industries are the worst stoppages still occurring; and do these
include freezing works and heavy engineering industries?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I have no figures with me, and will have to rely on my memory of
figures given to me. Certainly the freezing works would be among the leaders in industrial
stoppages in the period referred to by the member-for the 5 months up until May. I would
be happier if a further question was put to me about the heavy industries.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: How many man-days were lost by the 57 000 people involved in
industrial stoppages during the first 5 months of this year, and what was the loss in wages
compared with wages lost in the previous year when he first took office?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The number of days lost-and I presume they are man-
days-from January to March 1976 were 94 809, and for the same period in 1977, 70 313.
The total wages lost during January to May 1976 amounted to $3.1 million, and for the same
period in 1977, $3.2 million.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Although the reduction is to be welcomed-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We want a question, not a statement.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I was coming to the question-can the Minister confirm that the
reduction is still running at a rate above the average for the past 25 years?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The number of man-days lost, number of stoppages, and so on, is
cyclic. If one goes back over 25 years, 1951 was a bad year. Generally, the year after an
election is a bad year on a cyclic rotation. I do not have the specific statistics for every year
during the last 25 years with me.
Mr Marshall: As from time to time some of the Minister's colleagues blame the trade
union movement for increased days lost, is the Minister prepared to indicate to members of


## p. 2082 (#538) ###########################################

2082
11 August
Oral Answers to Questions
the House and to the trade union movement that the decline in stoppages shows the
reasonable approach of the trade union movement?
yes.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: With the qualification "some trade unions", the answer would be
Question transferred to Supplemer tary Order Paper.
Waiheke Island-Closure of Clothing Factory
3. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: What
action is he taking either to prevent the closure of Waiheke Island's only industry, the
clothing factory, or to provide other employment for the 80 people affected?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): Negotiations have
enabled the main factory to be purchased by another company, and operations will be
continued. Although the smaller factory will close, it employs only 25 people, and the
Department of Labour is prepared to assist with the placement of any of these people.
However, I understand that no approach has yet been made to that department for such
assistance. The member will recall his discussion with me on 3 August on this matter, and as
I arranged then, I have asked my department to keep me informed on the situation as it
develops. As I said then, either the department or myself will keep the honourable member
informed. I understand he has been brought up to date, but, if not, he is welcome to
approach me about the matter.
Mr Prebble: I am pleased with the actions the Minister has taken up to now, but should
the 25 or so people, who will be out of a job make individual applications or a group
application to the Department of Labour in order to find alternative employment?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER: I am not competent to answer that. My bench mate
is the Minister of Labour, but I have not discussed with him whether an approach should be
made individually or as a group. I suggest that the member might discuss the matter with
both of us after the question period. My colleague has just told me that he would be happy to
discuss with the member the best way to facilitate the approach to the department.
Question transferred to Supplement cry Order Paper.
Manual Telephones
4. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Postmaster-General: What percentage of telephone
users are still using manual telephones?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the
Postmaster-General. As at 31 March 1977, out of a total of more than 1 000 000 connections
and over 670 exchanges, the percentage of telephone users still using manual telephones was
6.8.
Mr Luxton: What progress has been made in the last 10 years, and are the manual
telephones in rural or urban areas?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: There has been steady progress over the last 10 years in
limiting the number of manual connections, and in removing them. In 1966, the percentage
of manual connections was 21.8 and, as I have said, it is now 6.8. There is a steady
programme for conversion, but it depends on resources and priorities. I hope that this will
continue at a reasonable rate. It is, of course, directed now to the rural areas and the last of
the smaller exchanges.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Coal Processing Plant for Westport
5. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) asked the Minister of Mines: Is he in a position yet
to indicate whether the pilot plant of Mitsubishi Chemical Industries, processing the 20 000
tons of Buller coal in Japan, is proving successful in producing high-grade, granulated,
activated carbon now selling for approximately $1,500 a tonne, and, if it is, what are the
prospects of establishing a big plant near Westport for future processing of this selected coal?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Mines): A recent report received from Mitsubishi
Chemical Industries Ltd states that the quality of the activated carbon being made in Japan
from Buller coal is very satisfactory. The long-term prospect of a joint Japanese-New
Zealand venture establishing an activated carbon manufacturing plant at Westport is still


## p. 2083 (#539) ###########################################

11 August
2083
Oral Answers to Questions
good, but immediate progress is being delayed by a world oversupply of activated carbon.
Mr Blanchfield: Assuming then that the plant will ultimately be set up to process the
activated carbon, what are the prospects of further processing with the residue left out of 70
tonnes of carbon from every 100 tonnes of coal?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: Further developments have not yet been worked out. If the project is
to proceed, there would still be a number of very important matters to be resolved with the
proposed Japanese partners. All I can say with confidence today to the member is that the
tests have been very satisfactory, but there is no likelihood of an early start because of the
state of the world supply of activated carbon.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Will any further shipments of Buller coal be sent to the firm
concerned to further prove the venture, or have the pilot plant investigations been sufficient
to fully prove the viability of the proposal?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I understand that the quantities shipped and the tests that have been
made were, at least in the original conception of the project, likely to be adequate.
Therefore, there is no proposal before me, nor am I aware of any, for additional shipments
for further proving.
Question, transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Disposable Syringes
6. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Can he
provide details of the purchase price per unit of disposable syringes from Japan'and the retail
price of these to diabetics requiring insulin treatment, and does he intend to investigate the
marketing practices for these syringes?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry): Disposable
syringes are imported and, as such, traders are not required to notify pricing details to my
department. It is therefore not possible to provide details of the purchase price of these items
at a short notice. An investigation into the costing and marketing procedures of disposable
syringes is now in progress, and I will advise the member of the outcome.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Road Transport Vehicles-New Distance Charge
7. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he indicate
when the new distance charge for all heavy road transport vehicles will be introduced, as
promised in the Budget press statement No.40, and can he give his assurance that the charge
will take into account the need to ensure that smaller road transport operators remain
competitive with larger transport operators?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): Budget press statement No.40
stated that the new package of heavy vehicle taxation will be introduced in three annual steps
as from 1 April 1978. Details on the timing of the introduction of the components within the
package are now being discussed by officials. The new distance charge will be applied to the
individual vehicle concerned, and will be determined by the gross laden weight, axle
configuration, and size of the vehicle. All operators will therefore be treated equally,
regardless of their vehicle fleet numbers.
Sir Basil Arthur: When are the details of the charges likely to be announced?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I would guess that some details could be announced in 2
months, but I remind the member that the first legislation will involve the abolition of what
we call the 40-mile restriction. I discussed that with the Transport Advisory Council last
Tuesday, and it is meeting again in a fortnight. Discussion on the matter the member raised
will follow that.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Diabetics Requiring Insulin Treatment
8. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Health: Can he advise the total
number of diabetics in New Zealand, and what percentage require regular insulin treatment?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): Accurate information on the number of diabetics
in New Zealand is not available. A question was included in the 1971 census survey which,
when analysed, showed that 17 430 people were under care for diabetes. These figures,


## p. 2084 (#540) ###########################################

2084
11 August
Oral Answers to Questions
however, have never been accepted by those associated with diabetic care, and a survey
conducted in 1967, covering 93 percent of the whole population of a New Zealand town,
suggested a much higher incidence of diabetes mellitus in the total population. The number
of patients requiring regular insulin injections at present is conservatively estimated at
12 000.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
French Polynesian Territories—Government Policy
9. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: What is the
policy of the New Zealand Government towards self-government by French Polynesian
territories?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs): The Government supports
moves towards decolonisation in the Pacific, but also believes that any initiatives towards
self-determination lie essentially with the Island nations themselves.
Hon. W. W. Freer: Has this been the subject of discussions at the South Pacific Forum,
or is it likely to be the subject of discussion at that forum?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I am not sure of the point of that question. The fact is, of
course, that no territory that is not self-governed and independent could become a member
of the forum. I believe that is the key point. It is recognised by members of the forum that
each one of them is an independent country, and there is certainly no prospect of either an
Island nation-a Pacific nation that is not independent-or a metropolitan power being
admitted to the forum.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is it not a fact that a United Nations committee regularly reviews
progress towards decolonisation of islands of this nature; and, if that is so, can the Minister
tell me when the next report on the Pacific area is likely to be made and available?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I am sorry, I do not have that information available. I can
obtain it for the honourable member, or if he wishes to submit another question I shall
obtain it for him then.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Armed Services-Personnel Statistics
10. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Minister of Defence: (1) Can he give the number of
men who have left the services in the past 12 months; and (2) how many of these men gained
a skill or qualification while training?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence): The numbers of servicemen who left
the services in the year ended 31 July 1977 were: Navy 594, Army 830, and Air Force 607. Of
these, the great majority had of course gained a service-oriented skill, and they are much
sought after in the civilian sector because they are so well trained and are conscientious
employees.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Can the Minister tell me how many of those servicemen left
prematurely?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: No, I do not have those figures at hand.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Railway Line Upgrading, Otago
11. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Railways: Has he seen
the Christchurch Press of 5 July, in which it is reported that the recently released findings of
the investigation into the 1 July goods train derailment at Mihiwaka, 3 km north of Port
Chalmers, confirmed that the derailment was attributable to a cracked rail, and, if so, what is
he doing to ensure that this section of the track is upgraded as a matter of urgent priority?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways): There was no such report in the
Christchurch Press of 5 July, but I have seen a report in the Christchurch Press of 5 August.
The fact that a rail failed as a result of a defect does not mean that track upgrading is
necessary. Action has already been taken to intensify the examination of similar rails in the
vicinity, and to replace any considered suspect. No further action seems necessary at this
stage, although I have told the general management of Railways that I am concerned about
that particular section of the track, and I have discussed it with them. The broken rail had a


## p. 2085 (#541) ###########################################

11 August
2085
Oral Answers to Questions
defect that is not uncommon, but it can very occasionally lead to a break. Regular
inspections are carried out on this section, as on every other operating line in the country.
Mr MacDonell: I apologise for having given the Minister the wrong month. However,
the matter is still relevant. In view of the fact that increasing container ship movements in
and out of the port of Otago, Port Chalmers, with South Island cargo are necessitating much
more use being made of the rail link between Dunedin and Christchurch, will the Minister
look at the whole of that permanent way?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I should tell the honourable member that the breakage
referred to was caused by what is commonly called wheel burning, which takes place when a
locomotive is going up a steep slope with a heavy load, and detection of it in the early stages
is done with sonic measuring equipment. I understand that the Railways Department intends
to use that equipment on the section of the track to which the honourable member referred
in his question. I have more technical data available, but it would take me some time to
explain it in the House. However, I shall be happy to give the honourable member a copy of
it if he so wishes.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Port Levies by Waterfront Industry Commission
12. Miss DEWE (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he, or can he give, any
indication of likely moves in the port levies this year by the Waterfront Industry Commis-
sion?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The Waterfront Industry Commission's
national administration fund levy has remained unchanged since 2 February 1976, and was
last reviewed at a meeting with the employers on 25 May 1977. As a result of that meeting
the levy continued without any change in the rates, and will be subject to further review
about November this year. It is highly unlikely that there will be an increase in the levy this
year.
Miss Dewe: Can the Minister advise whether the funds are sufficient to meet any
redundancy liability?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I have information on the training levy, the cost of living levy,
and on modernisation, but to reply to that question on redundancy I have to rely again on
the information I obtained at my last meeting with the Waterfront Industry Commission. At
that time there were certainly adequate funds available to cover any redundancy situation
likely to arise in the immediate future. That is a matter on which there may be legislation
later this year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hutt Valley Alternative School-Special Class
13. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Education: Is there any reason why
the Hutt Valley alternative school should not be made a special education centre?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I am not sure what the honourable
member means by his reference to the Hutt Valley alternative school. I assume he is
referring to the class for disadvantaged pupils established by Naenae College in 1976. That
class can be considered for establishment as a special class. The decision will depend upon an
evaluation of the work of the class and its priority in relation to other proposed special
education services.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Telephone Subscribers Using Party Lines
14. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Postmaster-General: How many telephone subscrib-
ers are using party lines, and what limits are set for automatic and manual lines?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the
Postmaster-General. At 31 March 1977, 97 153 subscribers, or 9.2 percent were using party
lines in New Zealand.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2086 (#542) ###########################################

2086
11 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Eviction by Police of Families at Upper Hutt
15. Hon. Mrs. T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN (Southern Maori) asked the
Minister of Police: Would he supply a report on the reasons why the police in Upper Hutt
chose to evict families, including infants, from a house at the weekend in the manner in
which, according to news reports, they did?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police): Those evicted from the Upper Hutt
property comprised in excess of 30 persons, none of whom had any authority from the owner
to be there. The police acted at the specific written request of the owner of the premises,
who had made a complaint that those on the property had broken the front door, had
smashed windows, and had pulled down a shed on the property and used it to start a bonfire.
The owner was genuinely concerned for his property, and for that reason requested the
police to remove them. This is not a case of a normal citizen in lawful occupation of a
dwelling. Those concerned were in part members of the Upper Hutt "black power" gang
then on remand for the criminal offence of unlawful assembly, and were apparently intent on
wrecking the property. Surely the member for Southern Maori will agree that property
owners also have some rights in these matters when their property is in danger. The actions
of the police were entirely within the law at all times, and were carried out in a humane
manner. It is to be regretted that these people acted in the manner in which they did, but the
responsibility for the events was entirely theirs. It is a pity that the adults conducted
themselves in such an irresponsible manner, thus involving small children in such a situation
Hon. M. Rata: In view of the involvement of young children in the situation referred to,
has the Minister of Police taken the opportunity of conferring with his colleague, the
Minister of Social Welfare, to ascertain whether something can be done to ensure that the
situation of the families concerned is not allowed to reach a stage where the police will again
be required to act in the way they did recently?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I was asked to supply a report on the reasons why the police
acted in such a manner. I do not consider that the supplementary question has anything to do
with that matter.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Peter Pan Ice Cream Factory-Displaced Work Force
16. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he indicate the present
position regarding the work force displaced by the closure of the Peter Pan ice cream factory,
and to what extent Department of Labour officers assisted in this problem?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): At present three female workers out of the
total of about 50 men and women who were displaced by the closure of the Peter Pan factory
are registered as unemployed. Following the announcement of the closure of this factory the
Department of Labour arranged to enrol the workers who indicated they needed assistance
to obtain other employment. Approaches were also made to local employers seeking
alternative job opportunities, and investigations were carried out into the special work
projects that could be commenced in the region as a temporary measure to assist redundant
workers. In addition, information on relocation assistance, housing, and details on superan-
nuation and social welfare benefits were made known to the union representing the workers
employed in the factory.
Mr Falloon: Have the efforts of the Department of Labour helped the workers of the
Peter Pan factory, who have formed themselves into a co-operative, in association with
private industry, to look at the feasibility of starting a spinning mill in one of the factories?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The Department of Labour has been in close consultation not
only with the Department of Trade and Industry but also with regional development
authorities on the prospect of private enterprise further helping the workers within their own
locality, and particularly in their own factory, if it should be opened, as the member rightly
said, for wool spinning or some other activity. I would draw the member's attention to
written answers to questions on yesterday's Order Paper citing the number of factories
closed, and referring to a certain number of people being unemployed. We were able to
indicate, from information supplied by the Department of Labour, that more factories, with
more employees, had started up in various areas throughout New Zealand, and I should
think that in that respect Waipukurau would be no exception.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Road Transport Vehicles-New Distance Charge
17. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Has he
received representations from the road transport industry on the new distance charge in the


## p. 2087 (#543) ###########################################

11 August
2087
Oral Answers to Questions
Budget press statement No. 40, and, if so, can he give his assurance that this time he will
consult all interested parties through the Transport Advisory Council before he commits
himself to any particular course of action?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): Representations have been made
by the road transport industry concerning the new distance charge. It is my intention to
consult with interested parties through the Transport Advisory Council and to continue to do
so. In fact, I am at present consulting with the Transport Advisory Council to decide on the
implementation of a number of the announcements made in the Budget concerning the
transport industry.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: When the Minister refers to consulting, does he mean that the
Road Transport Association will have an opportunity of hearing the Minister's proposals,
considering them, and perhaps coming back with alternative proposals?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: A week ago I made available to the Road Transport
Association officials from the Railways Department and the Ministry of Transport. The
Transport Advisory Council met on Tuesday, and I have asked for a special meeting to be
held in a fortnight. The council has agreed to meet and to give me its views on proposals in
the Budget. Then, as we go along, it will have the right to make its views known. But I would
remind the honourable member that the Government makes the final decision; it cannot be
otherwise.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Rural Bank-Loans in Otago
18. RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North) asked the Minister in Charge of the Rural
Banking and Finance Corporation: What were the total numbers and amounts of loans made
by the Rural Banking and Finance Corporation in Otago for 1975-76 and 1976-77?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister in Charge of the Rural Banking and Finance Corpora-
tion): For the year ended 31 March 1976, 580 loans to farmers were approved by the Rural
Bank's Dunedin branch for an amount of $9,791,408, and for the year ended 31 March 1977,
444 loans were approved for an amount of $10,897,621. In addition, for the year ended 31
March 1976, 26 industrial loans totalling $680,070 were approved, while, for the year ended
31 March 1977, 12 such loans were approved for an amount of $833,740.
Richard Walls: Does the Minister consider that the increased activity by the Rural Bank
in the last year was a proper contribution to regional development?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: Undoubtedly, assistance to farmers, provision for refinancing,
the livestock incentive, estate duty, the fishing industry, and so on, are all beneficial to the
province of Dunedin along the lines of regional development.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Intellectually Handicapped Residential Homes
19. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) to ask the Minister of Social Welfare: In view of the
grave concern expressed by the Society for the Intellectually Handicapped, reported in the
Wanganui Herald of 27 July 1977, at the recently announced changes in capital subsidy
payments, what assurance can he give that organisations providing residential care for the
intellectually handicapped will not be worse off under the new subsidy system?
Question 19 having been called.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti), on a point of order, said: Question 19 is, in substance, identical
with a question set down for answer on 9 August, only 2 days ago. Frequently, questions on
the Order Paper are not reached, and the repetition of a question by one member is a
discourtesy to other members who wish to have their question asked for the first time.
Further, I submit that the question breaches the Standing Orders in at least two respects.
Standing Order 87(3)(b) requires that questions addressed to Ministers shall not anticipate
discussion of an Order of the Day or other matter. On Tuesday of this week, the first
question, which was substantially identical to today's question 19, was transferred to the
Supplementary Order Paper for discussion on 17 August. Today's question therefore
anticipates an Order of the Day. Perhaps more pertinently, Standing Order 87(4) clearly
states that questions shall not repeat the substance of questions already answered. I submit,
therefore, that on those grounds question 19 should be ruled out and that we should proceed
to the next question.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui): There is considerable validity in the point made by the
member for Kapiti. Strictly speaking, there is a great deal of common ground between the
two questions. If I remember correctly, I was responsible for drafting both questions but I
overlooked the fact that one question had already been drafted. In a sense, the second


## p. 2088 (#544) ###########################################

2088
11 August
Oral Answers to Questions
question should not have gone in, but the last part of that question is a little different from
the earlier one asked, and I should be happy to have the chance of again asking this question
in the House. I do not greatly mind if it is ruled out of order on the grounds raised by the
member for Kapiti, but it seems to me that it would be helpful, if the Minister was prepared
to answer, for me to have the chance to ask him further questions.
Mr SPEAKER: There is one difference between the two questions, but I do not know if
it is substantial or trivial. The earlier question referred to an article of 2 July, and the second
to an article of 27 July.
Mr Marshall: The first should have read: 27 July".
Mr SPEAKER: Then one of the few differences between the two questions has
disappeared. After mentioning some concern, the first question asks if the Minister would
"indicate what action he proposes to take . . .". In his answer, the Minister assured the
member that in no individual case would a capital subsidy be reduced. Question 19 on
today's Order Paper concludes with these words: "What assurance can he"-the Minister-
"give that organisations providing residential care for the intellectually handicapped will not
be worse off under the new subsidy system?". The point having been raised, as we often
have more questions than we can deal with in the time, I rule that today's question is so close
to the earlier question asked that it should be disallowed.
Telecommunications Expenditure
20. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Postmaster-General: Can he advise the capital
expenditure on telecommunications in the 1975-76 and 1976-77 financial years and how
much of this expenditure was paid from revenue?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the
Postmaster-General: Capital expenditure on telecommunications development in 1975-76
was $49.6 million, and in 1976-77 $44.1 million. The Post Office was unable to fund any of
the 1975-76 expenditure on telecommunications development from its own resources, but
funded $28.5 million of the 1976-77 expenditure of $44.1 million.
Mr Luxton: Is it Government policy to provide greater amounts of capital expenditure
each year from revenue?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The objective for the Post Office as a great trading
organisation is that it should fund a reasonable proportion of its capital development from
revenue.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Hospitals-Funds for Equipment
21. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert), on behalf of Mr HUNT (New Lynn), asked the
Minister of Health: Has he seen the report in the Auckland Star of 21 July 1977 that the
Quota Club of Auckland is raising $3,000 to purchase a bowl for an Aminco centrifuge
machine for the haemotology department of Auckland Hospital, and, if so, what steps is he
taking to ensure that adequate funds are available for the purchase of necessary equipment
so that public hospitals are not forced to depend on charitable fund-raising efforts?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I have seen the report referred to. It will always
be a matter for those most directly concerned, in this case the Auckland Hospital Board, to
determine priorities and plan accordingly. This financial year, the board was allocated
$1,585,000 for minor capital works and equipment. It could have bought the piece of
equipment referred to in the question if it considered it rated a priority over other works and
equipment needed by the board.
Hon. W. W. Freer: What purchases are likely to be made this financial year by the
Auckland Hospital Board which will be funded from outside donations or subscriptions?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I have no idea. This is something we do not discourage. If people with
a special interest in a certain aspect of health care want to make a special effort to make a
contribution because what is of concern to them has a lower priority, that is not actively
discouraged. I am not aware of anything being in the pipeline at present.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Seamen Employed in New Zealand-registered Ships
22. Miss DEWE (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Transport: How many seamen are at
present employed in New Zealand-registered ships, how does this number compare with the
number 3 years ago, and is it correct that there was a recent shortage of seamen to answer
the call?


## p. 2089 (#545) ###########################################

11 August
2089
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): New Zealand seamen are
employed not only on New Zealand-registered ships but also on vessels registered
elsewhere. The figures I have relate to those vessels manned by New Zealand seamen. On 22
July 1977, 3084 men were needed to fill positions vacant on ships manned by New Zealand
seamen. The number required in August 1974 was 2793. It is correct that recently there has
been a shortage of particular categories of seamen, and steps are currently being taken to
alleviate this problem, 20 men being taken on in the last week, and discussions are being held
at present between employer and employee organisations on the need for further intakes.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Palmerston North Teachers College-Appointments
23. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: When does he expect
the appointment of principal lecturer in education and senior lecturer in drama to be made in
Palmerston North Teachers College?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I cannot say if or when a principal
lecturer in education and senior lecturer in drama can be appointed to Palmerston North
Teachers College. Provision has been made for the appointment of staff to teach courses in
drama. An acting principal lecturer in education has been appointed. Palmerston North
Teachers College is staffed over entitlement, and a case is being considered for special
approval to be given to fill the position with a permanent appointee.
Mr Marshall: When is an answer likely to be given to the teachers college council?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: That will depend on the ordinary processes of the representa-
tions. I have already considered the matter and am making representations to the Minister of
Finance who, with me, would approve that provision. At present the teachers college is over
entitlement by 5.2 lecturers. The problem is that it may or may not appoint someone from
the staff to fill one of those positions, in which case it would not have to make an application
for extra positions.
Mr Lithgow: Can the Minister confirm that over a month ago I made submissions to the
Minister on these appointments?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Yes, I can confirm that. I can also confirm that the honourable
member is very assiduous in his representations to me on behalf of the teachers college.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
URGENT QUESTION
Karitane Hospitals
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Health as an urgent question: Has he
seen the report in last night's Evening Post that "the Plunket Society's six Karitane hospitals
are nearly all broke' because the Government has not paid its subsidy to their running costs
for 5 months", and, if so, (a) can he say why the subsidies have not been paid, and (b) will he
take immediate action to ensure that the Plunket Society is not forced to waste its funds on
an extension of its overdraft?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): Yes, I have seen the report in the Eten ing Post.
The Plunket Society is the recipient of four subsidies in respect of the operations of its
Karitane hospitals: a subsidy of $2.25 for each $2 raised by the society as voluntary
contributions; a subsidy on the salaries of medical staff; since 1972, an annually approved
grant towards the annual operating deficit of the hospitals; and private hospital benefit of $9
per day per patient. All of these subsidies, except the annual operating deficit, are paid up to
date, and for this financial year so far are over $200,000. Because it is a grant to meet a
forecast annual operating deficit, time is required to fully investigate the amount of the
subsidy sought. This is particularly so when one considers that for the year ended 31 March
1973 the actual deficit was $28,797, while in 1976-77 $363,000 was paid out. I am, however,
looking at ways in which the hospitals liquidity problems can be overcome, perhaps by an
interim advance on the grant, while the necessary investigations are being completed.
A condition of the grant is that adjustments, both up and down, are made in the
following year when the final accounts are available, and although these were sought by my
department early in May this year, the society was unable to provide this information in
respect of the 1975-76 financial year until mid-July, and final accounts for the 1976-77
financial year are still not to hand. Although the grant has been approved earlier than this in
some years, in 1975 when the Labour Government was in power it was not approved until 28


## p. 2090 (#546) ###########################################

2090
11 August
Oral Answers to Questions
October. I intend taking a paper to Cabinet on Monday, 15 August seeking a grant for the
operating deficit for the year ending 31 March 1978, and any decision will be conveyed to the
society immediately.
MARLBOROUGH COUNTY COUNCIL RESERVES FUND EMPOWERING BILL
Mr LATTER (Marlborough): I move, That leave be given to introduce the Marlborough
County Coun il Reserves Fund Empowering Bill. This is a very short Bill of three clauses.
The long title gives a background to the restriction on the size of sections on which a levy can
be made to build up reserve fund contributions. At present the maximum area is 8000 square
metres. The Marlborough County Council has in the area of the Marlborough Sounds a
particular problem with the contour of the country and the fact that more than 50 percent of
all sections sold are over the maximum.
It is a county that is moving in a well planned way towards a recreational use of open
spaces and reserves. It is a county that has to contribute to the Marlborough Sounds Marine
Park Board and to the Department of Lands and Survey. Over the years it has been found
that these moneys must be provided from other areas within the county, because under this
maximum a levy cannot be imposed as a reserve contribution. The Bill seeks to empower the
Marlborough County Council to set aside the provisions of section 28 of the principal Act as
if the words "of less than 8000 square metres" did not appear in subsection (2) of section 28.
A remit to this effect was taken to the New Zealand Counties Association conference in
1972, and was endorsed.
Motion agreed to.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): There is an old socialist dictum that if you are going to tell a
lie, tell a big one because someone might believe it. I wonder if that dictum has been
recommended to the member for Auckland Central.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That is not in direct contravention of our rule precluding the
word "lie", but it came through so heavily by way of innuendo that a member of the House
was guilty of a lie that I think this should be withdrawn.
Mr MALCOLM: Certainly I will withdraw it, if you wish. I was very careful to make
sure that I did not say that the member for Auckland Central had lied, but was wondering if
the dictum had been recommended to him. If you wish me to withdraw it, I will do so
without reservation.
Mr SPEAKER: The member may feel I have been a little unjust in that he walked along
the edge of the cliff but perhaps felt he did not fall over. Nevertheless, although he has
explained his point, the position simply is that he should say "I withdraw" and move on with
his speech.
Mr MALCOLM: I withdraw. Another old dictum, which relates to the days when
troublemakers were put in the stocks in the town square and honest and decent citizens
pelted them with rotten fruit, is also appropriate. It says: "Fools' names, like their faces,
often appear in public places." I think that is an appropriate dictum to apply to some of the
headline-grabbing we have seen lately, especially in the Budget speech made by the member
for Auckland Central. The Dominion this morning said: "The Prebble pebble was not worth
tossing in the political pond in the first place; now the member only splashes himself by
alleging that the Dominion story was a deliberate leak from the Prime Minister's publicity
section."
Mr Courtney: Who wrote that?
Mr MALCOLM: It was written by the editor of the Dominion and I want to take him up
on that, because he is wrong-others are being splashed. The editor of the Auckland Star
last night wrote: "There has been enough non-thinking about this non-issue, and Mr Prebble
and his colleagues should let it rest." He also is wrong.
I should like to take a minute or two to explain a few fundamentals that I believe every
member should know. I know them, you know them, the editors of those newspapers should
know them, but apparently they do not, and I believe the public, which has been listening to
the incredible debate on this matter over the last few days, should be informed. I refer to the
traditional relationship between the Public Service and members of this Chamber. It is a very
special relationship, in which members of the Public Service serve politicians without fear or
favour, without question, and without bringing politics into it. What they traditionally


## p. 2091 (#547) ###########################################

11 August
2091
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
deserve in return is that they not be pilloried and attacked by those protected by the privilege
of the House. It is the duty of members of the House to protect the special relationship we
share with these loyal servants.
The member for Auckland Central has made a number of comments that I want to clear
up. The first is the word "leak", which has been dropped about. In this sense a leak is a
serious crime. It is a breach of the law for a public servant to perpetrate what the member for
Auckland Central loosely calls a leak. When he accuses public servants of leaking informa-
tion, he is accusing them of a very serious crime against the State. That should not be done
lightly. I also want to outline some realities, one of which is that under the Labour
Government the Prime Minister's Department did exist. It is not a new creation, although its
strength has been increased from 66 under the previous Administration to 78 under the
present Administration. Of those 78 people, 71 are permanent civil servants, like any other
public servant in any other Government department, and they do not deserve this sort of
treatment. Three people are on personal contract, and four are on contract from their
employers. The previous Administration also had three people on the staff of this depart-
ment who came under the category of "personal contract". These people still take the oath
of secrecy, and to leak information is still a heinous crime.
The four people on contract from private enterprise are top people from industry who
have come into the Prime Minister's Department on short-term contract to serve their
country. They include a monetary economist—a man of absolute integrity-an agricultural
economist, and two others similarly qualified. The member for Auckland Central has
impugned their reputations, and when they return to private enterprise the price they will
pay for one year's service on behalf of the people of New Zealand will be a slur against their
names, which they will be powerless to remove. That is what the member for Auckland
Central has done to them. I ask the question, will good, honest, and expert people feel as
free in the future to make themselves available to serve their community in this way if they
have to put up with this sort of slur from people like the member for Auckland Central?
He has also implied that the permanent head of this department is a political appointee.
Let me set the record straight. Mr Galvin was appointed to that position by the normal
public service process under section 29 of the Act, and was selected by an augmented State
Services Commission.
Mr Courtney: Did he write that for you?
Mr MALCOLM: No, he did not write that for me. The member for Nelson judges
others by his own standards. I am explaining the facts about the people the member for
Auckland Central has impugned. Mr Galvin was selected by an augmented State Services
Commission consisting of the chairman of the State Services Commission, the deputy
chairman of the State Services Commission, and three other permanent heads of depart-
ments who are selected for that position by their peers. The member for Auckland Central
has impugned directly not only a permanent head of a Government department, but all
permanent heads of Government departments, and said they are also involved in the
manipulation of the news and in corruption. That is one of the most snide, underhand,
unnecessary, scurrilous slurs made in the House recently.
I want to put the record straight on this matter. The Prime Minister's Department has
not changed its basic nature since the time of Labour Administration. For the most part the
people in the Prime Minister's Department are public servants, and those who are not are
either employed under the same contractual arrangements as the Labour Party used, or are
from private industry and have come into the department to serve their country. I hope the
editors of the Dominion and the Auckland Star, who think the matter should not be pursued
and cleared up, take note, because their editorial comments did less than justice to a very
loyal, efficient, and non-political group of senior public servants.
Turning now to the Budget, I am proud to speak in support of it. It is a progressive
Budget in the sense that it is part of a steady step-by-step programme, a move forward, and it
lays the foundations for some very far-reaching progress in the medium and long-distant
future. The Opposition has been unable to mount an effective attack on the Budget, hence
the sort of red herrings we have heard from the member for Auckland Central and others.
The Leader of the Opposition's speech sent Labour members to sleep. If there is an
identifiable theme to Opposition members' comments-and it is hard to see it would be
that the Government has failed to be totally revolutionary in its approach to some areas.
During the debate Opposition members have let through their guard a few indications
of what revolutionary ideas they advocate, and when I reach specific points I shall comment
on them. They.advocate a socialist revolution, and if it were honestly presented to the people


## p. 2092 (#548) ###########################################

2092
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
in its totality the average New Zealander would rise up in bloody revolt. The socialist
policies of 1972 to 1975, like the white paper on health which would have nationalised
doctors, the green paper on transport which would have abolished democratic institutions,
and the superannuation scheme which would have robbed everyone and resulted in a
Government takeover of the economy, resulted in the socialist Government of the day being
given the hiding of its life by honest Kiwis in 1975. Those policies pale into insignificance
when compared with some of the proposals for the 1978 election that Labour members have
let slip during this debate. The Budget is progressive, because the Government, like all good
things in New Zealand, is a progressive Government, which moves steadily and sensibly
toward the common national goals of a finer and fairer nation.
It is ironic to hear socialist members constantly referring to the report of the Holmes
task force. We heard hysteria from the Opposition benches when the task force was set up in
1976. It was set up as part of the Prime Minister's Department, which the member for
Auckland Central is now trying to tear apart. The socialist members have constantly referred
to that progressive thinking of the Prime Minister, who recruited people from industry and
the public service to do the research that produced the report. In a sense every word of the
report, commissioned and published under the National Government, is a reflection of the
Government's concern for the future of New Zealand. Now the socialists use the report to
criticise the Budget. Just 12 months ago they were screaming "tory think-tank”, “mini-
Watergate", and "all the President's men." Today the socialists pretend to espouse that
report as their own philosophy. Nobody in the House or the country is wearing that line.
In 1975 the National Government was elected to tidy up a monumental mess. Income
tax soared under the Labour Government, the overseas debt was at record levels, and the
Government had intentionally committed itself to spending more than $1,000 million a year
that it did not have. More than 140 000 permanent and long-term migrants were allowed into
the country, unemployment was high, house prices trebled, and thousands of people were
sitting on short-term mortgages that any economist or banker could see could not be readily
refinanced. The country was poised on the brink of disaster. What were the socialists doing
about it? Nero fiddled while Rome burned, but the member for Manukau, the dreaming,
fiddling accountant, was playing with extravagant broadcasting schemes, insatiably money-
hungry superannuation schemes, and a pathetically transparent baby bonus.
In 1976 the National Government rolled up its sleeves and started cleaning up the mess.
The Cabinet economic committee commenced a short-term emergency rescue operation.
The task force, criticised at that time, commenced a review of the direction that New
Zealand should be taking, various Ministers climbed on top of messy portfolios, and the
immigration shambles was sorted out. The Government put lost pride and confidence back
into the police force and agriculture, and rescued a bankrupt broadcasting system, while the
Prime Minister worked on the 1976 Budget. In retrospect that Budget was a spectacular
document, because it was drawn up by the Minister of Finance, who was in the position of
being a receiver rather than a manager. Nevertheless, progress was made in the fields of
energy, agriculture, and housing. The 1976 Budget introduced the most important social
programme of several decades-national superannuation.
The hard work of 1976 has been shown in the 1977 Budget. While we are not out of the
economic woods, we have turned a number of corners and now have a little room in which to
manoeuvre. Inflation is down, the balance of payments has improved, the deficit before
borrowing is down, the internal deficit is halved, and, in view of the small amount of room
available for manoeuvring, the Prime Minister has played the game like an All Black
halfback, picking up the ball that has been fed to him by his economic task force and
spinning it down the back line to get the game moving again.
There are stirring moves in the Budget that will be responsible for changing New
Zealand's future in the fields of fishing, energy, and transport. The transport moves are a
brave step, and will free up a troublesome clot that has been blocking the heart of the New
Zealand industry. The problems, false costs, and inefficiencies that have grown in New
Zealand's transport system do not impress themselves on the average New Zealander; he
feels the effect of them in his pocket and in his standard of living, but he does not directly see
how they happen. I do not expect the families in the Eden electorate to become excited
about the Government's transport policy, but over a period of years the living standards of
those families will improve because of the effects of the transport policy.
The energy policy is more likely to gain the attention of the average Eden resident,
because energy has become a matter which concerns us all. The layman easily recognises the
earlier parts of the energy policy, such as the highly successful conservation programme,


## p. 2093 (#549) ###########################################

11 August
2093
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
running at up to 200 percent better than target; the energy pricing policy announced last
year, which now ties in with a programme that covers accelerated geothermal investigation;
accelerated coal exploration programmes; a programme for on-shore petroleum exploration;
the development of local mini-hydro schemes; and right through to compulsory home
insulation and car pooling. New Zealanders are slow to admit that they are doing well. We
prefer to criticise ourselves. But the fact is that no other industrialised nation has a total
energy policy as well developed and well integrated as New Zealand has; and we do not have
nuclear power. As a result of this policy we may well find ways of avoiding nuclear power in
the future. If we can maintain our energy resources, move towards self-sufficiency, and
avoid nuclear power plants, we really will have New Zealand the way we want it. During its
term of office Labour did not have a unified Ministry of Energy Resources. It did not have
an energy policy at all, and still does not have an energy policy.
The 1976 Budget set the stage for fishing, which comes into this Budget blazing like a
sparkling firework. There has been an extension of duty-free concessions on fishing boat
imports, suspensory loans of up to 40 percent for New Zealand built fishing vessels, 80
percent loans for fishermen to buy boats, equipment, and gear, loans of two-thirds of the
cost of vessels and gear, improvement loans for fishermen in licensed fisheries, special
fishing boat ownership savings schemes, training incentives for the fishing industry, and
special grants for fisheries development. The grant to the Fishing Industry Board has been
almost doubled. This will all be supervised by a brilliant young Minister of Fisheries, who is
New Zealand's first Minister of Fisheries. The socialist Government, whose members are
silent now, was silent on fishing. It failed to provide incentives or support for fishing, and it
even failed to appoint a Minister of Fisheries.
While I am on the topic of fishing, I should like to refer to the mystery of the
plesiosaurus, which has been the subject of much speculation recently. I have some
information that may be of interest. It has been suggested that the creature is some sort of
primeval monster whose origins lie in antiquity. There have been eye-witness reports stating
that the creature was seen briefly off the New Zealand coast in the 1930s and 1950s, and we
know that a rotting carcass was recently found drifting off the east coast of the South Island.
When the stench became too much it was thrown overboard again. A creature from the past
seen briefly in the 1930s and 1950s whose rotting carcass has been recently rejected-surely
the plesiosaurus is the Labour Party.
The Budget is not just a Budget of the future-it provides real incentives to ordinary
New Zealanders right now. The people of my electorate will feel the effect of the Budget in
their daily lives in a number of ways. First, I wish to demonstrate what will happen to a
person earning an average income. Average income can be defined in all sorts of statistical
ways. I shall take first a person who, in October 1977, will earn about $141 gross weekly.
Under the Labour Government in 1973 he would have paid 19.8 percent of his income in tax.
In October 1975, still under the Labour Government, he would have paid 21.2 percent of his
income in tax. In October 1977, under the National Government, he will pay 16.4 percent of
his total income in tax. His total take-home pay will have increased by 65 percent, and in that
period the consumer price index will have gone up by 62 percent, which means that by
October he will be about 3 percent better off in purchasing power. Let us take the example
of a person with two children whose gross income is $129. His tax take increased from 18.2
percent to 19.6 percent under Labour, but by October 1977 it will have been reduced to 13.1
percent. That person will find that, while the consumer price index will have gone up by
approximately 62 percent, his take-home pay will have increased by more than 70 percent,
and he will be 8.2 percent better off. A person who, in October, has a gross income of $118 a
week would have had 16.7 percent in tax taken from him in 1973 and 18 percent in 1975, but
by October 1977, 10.9 percent will be taken from him in tax. His take-home pay will have
increased by 75.9 percent during a period when the consumer price index has increased by 62
percent. He will be 13.9 percent better off.
Nobody can tell me that by October 1977, when the tax tables have been adjusted, there
will be a substantial number of low-income people who are worse off than they were 3 years
ago. I admit that it is not as nice to be a member of a low-income group as it is to be a
member of a high-income group. That is patently obvious, and I am sure we would all like to
see low-income earners paid more, but the argument that they are worse off under the
National Government simply cannot be sustained. I turn to another group of people in my
electorate, the pensioners. By 18 August they will be receiving $82.72 if they are married,
and $49.64 if they are single. It is welcome news that national superannuitants with no other
income will no longer need to file annual returns of income.


## p. 2094 (#550) ###########################################

2094
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
There has been some argument about the extra cost of the national superannuation
scheme-$165 million. The Minister of Social Welfare recently said that the Labour
superannuation scheme would have cost a further $168 million on top of that-it would have
been more expensive. People have said that surely that means that Labour's scheme would
have put more money into the hands of the superannuitants. The answer is no, because the
Labour scheme, please recall, aimed to take money from people now, but nobody received a
full payout for 45 years. So if the Labour scheme had been in operation people over the age
of 60 would have received none of the benefits they are getting from the National scheme,
but would have been paying through the nose for the Labour scheme. On top of the taxation
rates that the Labour Party says are now too high, Labour's superannation scheme would
have bled the average young family dry. Do not let the Labour people say to me that we are
taxing low-income earners to pay the age beneficiaries, because their scheme would have
taxed those people even more heavily and the superannuitants would not have received any
money. Of course, they would not have paid the women either.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition recently described the superannuitants as the
undeserving elderly. We have heard Labour's spokesman on social welfare say that we are
paying the pension to people who do not deserve it, and we have heard Labour members talk
about a need for a radical rethinking of the tax system. If we take note of some of the
statements certain members of the socialist party have let slip during this debate, and if we
add them to the statements appearing in the Leader, the paper of the democratic socialist
party, it becomes quite clear that Labour's tax policy will put means and income tests back
on superannuation, raise the age to 65, put a special tax on working wives, and institute
property and capital gains taxes. That is what the socialists mean by taxation reform.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert): The member for Eden commenced his speech by
referring to the large number of people he claimed were wrong, including the editors of some
of our leading newspapers. When he starts to look at the figures he quoted about taxation,
he will have to add his own name to the number of people who are frequently wrong. When
he rose to speak he dealt first with pensioners, and then when he got on to the Budget he said
he was proud to support it. He then spent 10 minutes talking about the nasty socialists on this
side of the House. Obviously he has not read the Budget-or if he has he is likely to be
putting his name in as Labour candidate for Eden, not National, because the Budget extends
the scope of socialism in New Zealand.
The member for Eden tells us he is proud to support the Budget. I ask him to think
about the whole energy policy. Not only is the search for oil now to be nationalised and
socialised by this conservative Government, but, more importantly, any competition in the
energy pricing field has been completely eliminated. The National Government has said
what the prices will be for all types of energy.
Mr Bruce Barclay: No competition.
Hon. W. W. FREER: No competition at all. That is even worse than socialism, surely;
that is National socialism-the Government's interpretation of what should be done. He has
forgotten that in the Budget, which he was so proud to support, provision has been made to
assist small businesses. A small business agency is to be established. Who is going to run it?
Is private enterprise going to run it? No. The National Government says private enterprise
cannot run it as efficiently as the Development Finance Corporation, which is a wholly State-
owned undertaking. The member ignores that fact, saying, "We in the National Party are
strongly opposed to socialism". He knows, or should know, that when the small business
agency legislation, which is an amendment to the Development and Finance Corporation
legislation, was before the Commerce and Mining Committee people from the chambers of
commerce and from the commercial community came to that committee, objecting to the
fact that the National Government is going to put out of existence two privately operated
small business agencies, one in Dunedin and the other in Palmerston North, both of which
are doing excellent work. Rather than supporting them, the National Government says,
"No, we are not going to support you. We are going to swamp you. We are going to put you
out of business".
Socialism! This man has the nerve to talk about the impact of socialism. He spent some
time talking about the Prime Minister's Department, and he said, "Well, the staffing is not
so different." That is correct, but the difference concerning us is the additional people who
have been recruited directly by the Prime Minister as political appointees, and the fact that,
for the first time in our history, we see appointed to such a post senior people who are now
going to public gatherings, speaking in support of the administration of the present
Government, and taking a party political line.


## p. 2095 (#551) ###########################################

11 August
2095
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Don't talk nonsense.
Hon. W. W. FREER: This is what we absolutely object to. There are cases where
representatives of the Government—
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: You ask the Leader of the Opposition. He knows that's not so.
Hon. W. W. FREER: Would the Acting Prime Minister control himself just a little?
There have been instances when a Minister of the Crown has spoken at a conference, and
has been followed by a representative of the Prime Minister's office who, on that platform,
takes a political line, which I believe is not what our bureaucratic system is all about.
The member for Eden said that this was a step-by-step Budget. It is step by step
backwards. It is a step backwards in every section that he wants to examine. How brave the
Prime Minister was when he was Leader of the Opposition, and was able to tell the country
that too much was being imported into New Zealand, and that once there was a change of
Government it would be fixed-they were going to solve it. But we find in a statement made
only a matter of days ago by the Government Statistician that the record levels being set in
imports do not, as claimed by Government members, directly result from oil imports, but
from other commodities. I quote: "Mr Harris said surveyed overseas orders, except those by
mineral fuel oils, were valued at $503 million in the 6 months ended June 1977, which was
22.4 percent higher than the corresponding period of 1976." Yet we have heard speaker after
speaker on the other side of the House claim that the reason the Government is in
difficulties over imports is the high cost of fuel. Yet in that same period, ended June 1977,
the actual total of imports has gone up by 10.5 percent, and the non-oil imports by more than
22 percent.
The Prime Minister was also very brave before the election, when he went around
telling everyone that borrowing in this country was far too extensive, and he would have to
reduce it. We now have hit record levels in borrowing, too, and he is trying to justify it,
trying to find any excuse at all. As for taxation, to which the member for Eden referred, the
total tax has doubled since the Prime Minister, in a speech in 1974, said that if we are going
to solve the problems of this country we must give people incentives to produce more—and
the incentive he talked about in that speech was the reduction of taxation. From the date
when he made that statement until today the total yield of taxation has exactly doubled.
What sort of an incentive is that for anyone to produce more?
As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out when speaking in this debate, the National
Party as a Government has inherited a 50 percent increase in export earnings. And, as the
manufacturers state in the latest edition of Manpress, all that has disappeared, with nothing to
show for it at all other than the old cry of the people opposite that it is time we adjusted our
thinking on borrowing. We are now told how wise we are to borrow. We are told that,
because world interest rates are falling, the present Minister of Finance is a genius. It is
funny that he finds it convenient to point to low interest rates throughout the world and says
how fortunate that is for the country, while here in New Zealand he does just the reverse,
and introduces legislation that allows the moneylenders to go for their lives. If he is so wise in
borrowing at low interest rates overseas, if that is right for him and New Zealand, why is the
same opportunity not given to people in New Zealand?
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Don't talk nonsense.
Hon. W. W. FREER: It is all right for the Acting Prime Minister to make as much noise
as he likes. The tragedy is that the manufacturers are saying in their last bulletin, which I
have here, that many of their members have to go out seeking debenture capital, and are not
able to get it at less than 13 percent, all of which must unfortunately be written into the end
cost to the consumer. This is a great tragedy, and is something that the Prime Minister can no
longer avoid.
I wish to take the opportunity that is afforded all members during the Budget debate to
refer to matters that concern them in their own electorate, before I come back to other issues
in the Budget. Some of my colleagues and I on this side of the House who represent
Auckland electorates have become gravely concerned about the deterioration in the health
standards of so many children in our primary schools.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Did it start in 1976?
Hon. W. W. FREER: I point out to the Acting Prime Minister that only last week, when
visiting one of the largest primary schools in my electorate, I was told that the rot set in about
the middle of last year. There is a serious situation in Auckland, and I regret that no action is
being taken by the Government to solve the problem, not only of looking after the children
who urgently require medical attention in order to halt an illness that will develop if nothing
is done, but also that of the child and home hygiene.


## p. 2096 (#552) ###########################################

2096
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
I wrote to the Auckland Education Board about the matter, because, as I mentioned
earlier, I was gravely concerned. This morning I received a letter from the board, which
stated: "The position is that the board, too, is disturbed about the health circumstances of
some children at its schools, and has made submissions for the appointment of nursing staff.
At the August meeting members agreed to support the request submitted by the New
Zealand School Committees Federation for an improvement in the present health in schools
situation, and they would appreciate any assistance you are able to give."
What has been done? According to the letter, one nurse has been appointed to a school
in south Auckland, and I am told by a headmaster that a nurse has also been appointed to a
school in my electorate. When I visited the school I was appalled when I was told that some
of the staff had been infected with lice and scabies, and that these outbreaks were occurring
frequently. I found that some of the teachers were visiting the homes of the children affected
to try to help the mothers appreciate the importance of improving the standard of hygiene in
the home. However, there is no possible way by which teachers, already overworked, can
also undertake this very important visiting, which is the responsibility of the health
administration. I am appalled that the Minister of Health is not doing more about the
matter. It cannot be resolved by one visit to a home; the process is a continuing one.
I want to take the opportunity, the first I have had, to draw to the attention of the
Minister and the Government the need for urgent and continuing action. For those who
might be a little smug and think that the problem affects only the Polynesian community in
Auckland, let me assure them that that is not so. In the last school I visited, the number of
children affected was fairly evenly divided between pakehas and Polynesians. The problem
must be dealt with now.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Which school was that?
Hon. W. W. FREER: Two schools are involved: Edendale School, which I visited last
Monday week and talked to the staff and where urgent action is necessary; and the Owairaka
Primary School, which first brought the matter to my attention. The turnover of children in
those two schools has reached the very high level of about 30 percent each year. Unless the
children are checked for health and hygiene problems when enrolling in these schools, the
matter will become increasingly worse.
I come back to the Budget, in which I was bitterly disappointed. It was produced by a
Prime Minister who so frequently pays lip service to the importance of productivity, but does
nothing about it. On page 21, reference is made to shift work, depreciation allowance, profit
sharing, and the high-priority activities for industrial development. No detail is given, but
one reads that further details will be announced later, and that a scheme is being developed.
I find it rather strange that these sections of the Budget, which could and should be of major
importance, are just briefly mentioned without any final proposals. Manufacturers have told
me that when they approached the Department of Trade and Industry to find out how one of
the schemes was to work they were told by officials that they did not know anything about it,
but that perhaps in 2 or 3 weeks' time they might get a circular. This is in marked contrast to
the great detail in the Budget about the fishing industry, the type of assistance available now,
not in the future, and the assistance available for boat construction and purchase.
Why should that be, especially when the manufacturing industry's exports totalled $491
million in the June year, compared with the fishing industry's total of $46 million in the same
year? Even if the fishing exports were doubled as a result of the provisions in the Budget, the
amount would still be a drop in the bucket compared with the amount of exports from the
manufacturing community. In the Manufacturers Federation Market Intelligence Report
No. 2 it is stated: "Seventy-five million dollars worth of manufactured exports to Australia
are now under direct threat of quotas." However, no details were given in the Budget of
what action the Government would take to protect that market. One cannot help but wonder
why. Was it because the Prime Minister, as Minister of Finance, knew he would be attending
the ASEAN conference and wanted to have a big stick with which to threaten the Prime
Minister of Japan by having a positive proposal to put to him? If not, was it because of the
present visit of the Minister of Fisheries to Europe and elsewhere? It seems quite illogical
that there was so much detail in the Budget about fishing, but no positive proposals for
manufacturing.
We read that the Minister of Fisheries is satisfied that there can be some worth-while
joint fishing ventures in New Zealand with overseas interests. Members on this side of the
House would not oppose that. However, what we do find rather remarkable, and so typical
of the Prime Minister's confused approach to the matter, is that only a few months ago he
was talking about a great threat to the security of the world because, he alleged, Soviet


## p. 2097 (#553) ###########################################

11 August
2097
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Union vessels were moving into the Indian Ocean. Earlier this year he was very concerned
when it looked as if the Soviet Union was interested in Tonga. Now we have the Minister of
Fisheries announcing from the other side of the world that there will probably be a joint
fishing venture with the Soviet Union. Instead of being frightened about Russian vessels
being in the Indian Ocean, we will be putting up banners on the wharves and inviting the
Russians to visit New Zealand regularly. I just cannot follow the Government's reasoning.
I mentioned the problems that the manufacturers are facing. They are very concerned at
the absence of positive Government action on NAFTA. The Australian Government is, on
the one hand, under pressure from its own manufacturers, whose economic strength has
been weakened because of the slump in that country, and on the other is under pressure
from the ASEAN countries, which are demanding greater access to the Australian market.
Not enough is being done by the New Zealand Government to diversify markets for both
manufactured and primary products. A statement in the New Zealand Manufacturers
Federation Market Intelligence Report points out that market diversification is an exercise
which requires a great deal of cost and time. There is no mention in the Budget of what is to
be done to improve market research for manufacturers who are likely to lose their entire
markets in Australia, or a very large slice of them. That seems to be typical of the approach
of the Government to international trade generally.
There is still the old belief on the other side of the House that our major markets will
always be in Europe. We fool ourselves if we believe that to be so. The Minister of Overseas
Trade is more aware than anyone else in the House of the difficulties he faced on a recent
trip to Europe-and the problems will not go away but will intensify. With increasing freight
costs and increasing protectionism in Europe, we cannot expect our primary producers to
survive in a world where they are compelled to pay extremely high freight rates to get their
goods to the European market, and then have to sell them at a price which is far from
rewarding in comparison with the locally produced commodity. It is ridiculous to believe that
that can continue. It is high time we started doing some very hard bargaining at Government
level, not just on the basis of price, but on the basis of what we ourselves buy from some of
those countries. We buy at world prices, and pay the freight.
The Government is one of the largest single purchasers of capital goods. No action is
being taken on a Government-to-Government basis to agree on a long-term programme for
certain capital commitments to be assured to a country in return for a given volume access
for a range of commodities from that country. We are not doing enough to explore the
opportunities which are developing in the Middle East, in South America, in the near
Pacific, and in Asia. At present there is an excellent trade exhibition in Singapore, and
reports from the exhibition clearly indicate what can be done when, in a competent, well-
organised way, we go into the major trading areas of the world and conduct a thoroughly
competent trade fair. I saw the same thing many times when we were in Government.
Without exception, all of these trade fairs have resulted not only in an increase in our total
exports to the area, but also in the supply of new items to those areas. For that reason,
I urge
the Government to allocate in the supplementary estimates more than has already been
allocated, to ensure that we expand the number of trade exhibitions, and encourage by
means of incentives-subsidies if necessary-more of our manufacturers and primary
producers to join in those fairs. We cannot expect to maintain our current high level of
manufacturing and primary product sales unless we continue with promotion. Promotion
requires money, and private enterprise spends a great deal on it. The State must do the
same.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I follow a somewhat subdued member for
Mt. Albert, who finished his speech on the Budget by advocating still further expenditure.
After complaining about the member for Eden's analysis of the tax structure, he suggested
that probably more could have been done. He commented that the National Government
was attempting to wholly socialise the oil industry. I think I have that correctly.
Hon. W. W. Freer: No, you have not.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Perhaps I did not write it down correctly. Does the member
oppose the Budget item spelling out added Government-sponsored research with the
Department of Scientific and Industrial Research for either gas or possibly-and even the
Minister himself admitted the long shot-black oil on-shore? Who is currently undertaking
the research in the Great South Basin? It is private enterprise-American capital. The
member knows very well that there is no intention of socialising the whole oil industry. He
would hardly expect me not to comment on his appointing a communist to the committee of
inquiry into the distribution of oil products, and that from that flowed a controversial book,
18 Vol. 412


## p. 2098 (#554) ###########################################

2098
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the contents of which were referred to in the House recently.
He suggested that the Budget mentioned several things, but not in much depth. I did not
hear him complain that the Budget was too short. A well-presented monetary document that
took 105 minutes to read must inevitably impinge but briefly on some major topics, and then
pass on, leaving the details to come later. Indeed, the Minister of Transport announced some
details shortly after. The member for Mt. Albert alluded to profit sharing, and I hope to be
able to add a little to his knowledge of that subject in a few moments. The Budget took about
105 minutes to read, and, judging by recent Budgets from both Governments, was of some
length. I do not think the member was suggesting that the Budget should have been even
longer. It has become practice for the Budget to be the planning document of the
Government, followed by announcements, press releases, and ministerial statements. On
this occasion the explanatory notes from Ministers were approximately the same length as
the Budget.
The member said the Budget dealt with fishing in some detail. I think that that was
commendable, but he held that the fishing industry was of little importance when compared
with the manufacturing sector. That might have been perfectly correct once, but he
completely overlooked the entirely new set of circumstances under which we as a country
must review the fishing industry. With the introduction of the 200-mile limit, New Zealand
will become a major fishing nation. He then decried the fact that the Minister of Fisheries is
currently overseas. But he did not mention that the Minister is overseas trying to protect
New Zealand's interests and ensure that we control the 200-mile management zone. That
will be in our interests, but the member for Mt. Albert brushed it aside; he evidently
considered it of no importance whatever.
The member wanted to talk only about manufacturers and markets. Indeed, he alluded
to the Australian markets and suggested somewhat blithely that the Budget had overlooked
the current trans-Tasman trade situations. I suggest with due respect that he should reread
the Budget carefully. In it is what I would call a "straight" statement-some might even call
it pungent, and a few members of the press have called it pertinent comment on trans-
Tasman trade. That statement was made by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, and
included in the text of the Budget. The member for Mt. Albert then said that members on
this side of the House-I am sure he was alluding to Government members-were much
more interested in their inherent belief-and "belief" was the word he used-that New
Zealand's major future markets were in Europe. He made that statement quite unequivoc-
ally and without any qualification whatever. I gently remind the member for Mt. Albert that
recently-if I may refer to a case in which I was personally involved-we have seen press
comment resulting from my allusion to the fact that New Zealand lamb was unobtainable on
the west coast of America or in Canada. Subsequently, following a challenge in the press,
there has been correspondence on the subject and I was able to name my sources. We have
now had an assurance that the possibility of diversification of New Zealand lamb cuts on the
west coast of America and in Canada will be followed up and researched thoroughly.
If one was to look at the areas highlighted by the member for Mt. Albert, I am sure one
would find that similar circumstances exist in the Middle East and elsewhere. I draw his
attention to the fact that in Wellington Harbour today is a vessel named after our capital and
designed solely for trade between Australia, New Zealand, and America. It is one of the
most modern vessels in the world. The member for Mt. Albert mentioned the opportunities
in the Middle East, but did so only in passing. He has witnessed the changes in recent years
and is fully aware that he now sits where he does and that I stand where I do on that. He
knows that we have developed a trucking industry from Turkey into Iran, admittedly by
shipping through the Black Sea, which is not highly desirable. However, he completely
ignored the fact that the Government has reached agreement with the Bahraini Government
to open a terminal, a new port, in Bahrain that will be the centre for the distribution of New
Zealand produce in the Middle East.
I think that about sums up the argument put forward and points raised by the member
for Mt. Albert, who was notably subdued and a little illogical. However, perhaps I could
follow up one point he made. He said the Budget presented an opportunity for members to
speak about their electorates, and he alluded to schooling and various education problems
within his electorate, as he had a perfect right to do. I too want to allude to a local issue, one
'that is very germane to the Budget and which has not been referred to in the debate so far.
On page 13 of the Budget reference is made to the marked increase in the estimates for
expenditure on water and soil projects this year. The allocation has been increased by 13
percent, to $27 million. That is a very significant increase, but much more significant is the


## p. 2099 (#555) ###########################################

11 August
2099
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
fact that the $2.9 million extra is for new projects with a high economic potential-economic
not only in terms of return on capital but also in terms of production. The increase is good
news for the farming community, and in particular for those in my electorate of Clutha.
At this point I must give Opposition members credit and say that those who were
members of the former Labour Government played their role in initiating some, but all too
few, rural water schemes. I happen to have one such scheme in my electorate. It was planned
under the previous National Government and brought to fruition by the Labour Govern-
ment. It is currently showing a 23 percent return on capital. I suggest, with due respect, that
it represents as good an investment as one could obtain anywhere. I do not say that is
socialism, but it is a subsidised scheme that provides water for farmers in areas where they
need water for stocking.
I am glad to say that last week the Minister of Works and Development was able to
announce approval for the start of the Richardson scheme in South Otago. Only 18 months
ago my opponent in the general election suggested there would be no way in which I could
obtain approval for that scheme. I now know that the Minister contemplates that, from the
additional allocation being made available in this year's Budget, further schemes will be
approved for the Clutha electorate. I trust that some approvals will be announced as early as
next week, and I am hoping for three or four within the Clutha electorate. In the few fleeting
minutes in which I shall refer to my electorate, I point out that one of the proposed schemes
includes the Wangaloa or the bigger Moa Flat scheme, and will mean a tremendous increase
in New Zealand production. The minimum calculated improvement is 16 percent, and
inevitably it has been underestimated. Although inflation might increase costs during the 4
or 5 years the scheme will take to install, the commencement of the scheme will give the
farmers tremendous confidence.
Under this Budget's provisions a record number of water schemes can be started with
approval from my colleague the Minister of Works and Development. I repeat that the
announcement giving approval to the schemes will give the farmers confidence, and I am
certain the member for Christchurch Central will endorse the proposals. Half a million
dollars is also being allocated for the investigation of irrigation proposals in the neighbouring
electorate of Otago Central. I am indeed thankful that we have been able to convince those
in charge that more quickly than anything else the rural water schemes will lead to a
considerable increase in primary production for sale to the varied markets mentioned by the
member for Mt. Albert a few minutes ago. I am most grateful for the additional allocation,
and I look forward to the announcement of the schemes finally approved for commencement
this year. I trust that four will be commenced in the Clutha area, and I know of one already.
I turn now to some of the problems New Zealand faces today that are germane to my
own Labour portfolio. As I walked into the House a few minutes ago after speaking on a toll
call, while my colleague the member for Eden was speaking, I heard a sort of sotto voce
interjection from the Opposition front bench which would not have registered clearly with
most members and which suggested that the unemployment level was at an all-time high. In
fact, at the moment unemployment is running at about the same level as it was under
the former Labour Administration. The numbers fluctuate a little from time to time, varying
by 100 or 200, but in round terms-and I shall give the actual figure in a moment or two-the
average number represents about 0.55 percent of our work force.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: That's the registered unemployed?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Yes, I am speaking about the number of registered unemployed.
In a minute or two I shall return to the question raised by the member for Avon of whether
or not unemployed married women should be registered. However, I make the point that the
number of registered unemployed in New Zealand represents merely a tenth of the
unemployment problem in Australia. If one looks at the figures for other countries, of
course, one finds that in some nations the unemployment position is even more disastrous. I
suggest, with respect and some modesty, that the National Government has done more than
any other in successfully containing unemployment and in assisting the unemployed to seek
the advice and expertise of the employment service of the Department of Labour. I concede
--and I hope I give credit where credit is due-that the Minister of Labour in the former
Labour Government, who now sits opposite me, started what is called an active employment
policy.
Hon. David Thomson: I think we started it actually.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Yes, that is right. Certainly we started it and gave it that name,
but the member for Roskill, during his time as Minister of Labour, actively tried to make it
work. With due respect, I believe that the latest developments, along with another proposal
18


## p. 2100 (#556) ###########################################

2100
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
mentioned in the Budget we are now discussing to subsidise private enterprise further for
using junior employees, are probably the most radical and dramatic steps taken in an active
employment policy. They have helped keep unemployment figures low, and at the same time
increased New Zealand's productivity. Australia has 10 times the New Zealand unemploy-
ment rate, and in May of this year the rate of unemployment in Canada was 7.9 percent,
compared with our rate of 0.53 percent at that time. West Germany, which is often held up
as a good example by many Auckland businessmen, has an unemployment rate of 4.6
percent. I also mention that in Italy the unemployment rate is 6.8 percent. Even Japan has
an unemployment level of 1.8 percent. I could quote many more figures, but shall refer only
to Britain, which has an unemployment rate of 5.9 percent-also more than 10 times the
New Zealand rate.
Not long ago, during the Nelson by-election campaign, we were told that more than
20 000 people would be unemployed during last winter. At one stage someone became really
enthusiastic and inflated the figure to 50 000. However, that rate of inflation has not been
achieved anywhere in the world overnight, in a week, or even in 18 months, the length of
time the National Government has been in office. The register of unemployed, the most
reliable indicator, gives the latest number of unemployed as 7000. This is too high by New
Zealand standards; it is manageable, but only just. It has never looked like, nor does it now
look like, touching the 20 000 claimed by the Leader of the Opposition in a by-election
speech. We will leave the figure of 50 000 to those extravagant back-benchers who like a
little literary licence. The Government has also found over 7000 productive jobs for those
who have registered and have been in need of assistance in the last 18 months.
For the benefit of the member for Avon, who questioned me on this, if married women
want assistance, are seeking a job, and are prepared to work a minimum of 30 hours a week,
they can approach the employment service of the Department of Labour. Then, if a job is
not found for them, they are on the registered unemployed list. We do try to find jobs for
them. In answering a supplementary question by the member for Avon I was able to
convince her that, in the New Zealand situation, we were coping with the problem of
married people who are unemployed and able to work more than the minimum full-time
working week of 30 hours. The policy, originally designed by the National Government and
furthered by the Labour Government, has been taken a great deal further by the National
Government in the last 18 months, and this Budget takes it further still, as I indicated a
minute ago.
Anyone can play with figures and suggest that they are higher than they actually are. I
have done that when in Opposition, but the register of unemployed in New Zealand has
been unaltered over the years, and it is no good someone saying that you can fiddle with the
figures and make the position look either worse or better than it really is. Certainly, we may
go on to change the basic criteria. Many people have suggested a different method of
calculation for the consumer price index, but in weighing one situation against another we
must accept that the figures are as reliable as we can make them and cover the field, as they
did during the terms of three different Governments. The Government has convened a
technical working party from the Department of Labour and the Department of Statistics to
investigate in detail the feasibility of a household labour force survey to measure employ-
ment and unemployment. I am hopeful that it will work. I cannot guarantee that it will, but if
it does it may lead us to a better set of statistics and an even better record than we have at
present; and I say unhesitatingly that I am not ashamed of the present record.
The National Government has achieved two significant employment trends. It has
restored confidence in the private sector and, in the year to April 1977, 11 023 more
jobs-an increase of 1.7 percent-were found. By comparison-and this is where the test of
the Government lies-the public sector employment, including Government and local
authority employment, decreased by 490, or 0.2 percent, to April 1977. The full effects of
this have yet to be seen. I concede that I am likely to be questioned about employing
temporary staff when we come to the estimates that follow on from this Budget debate. Yes,
we are employing temporary staff, but at no greater disproportionate level than have
previous Governments. Within the State sector, there has always been a degree of tempor-
ary employment, and when the statistics come out it will be seen that the position is no worse
and does not take away the credit due to this National Government for non-expansion in the
State sector.
The member for Mt. Albert alluded to socialising the oil industry, but this Government
has not coped with the unemployment position by adding to State Service numbers. Many
people suggest that we have enough State servants. Under the sinking lid, one or two


## p. 2101 (#557) ###########################################

11 August
2101
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
departments of State find it a little harder to give a reply tomorrow to a question asked
today. If we cut our economic cloth to suit New Zealand's economic situation, those whom
State servants serve must expect some delay, provided it is neither intolerable nor unaccept-
able, and I make no apology for it because today it is just an economic fact of life. The
Government has reduced artificial growth in the State sector. That compares with increases
in the non-private sector under the Labour Government of 4.1 percent in the year to
October 1974; 6.4 percent in the year to April 1975; and 7.5 percent in the year to October
1975. Private sector full-time employment declined in the same three surveys under the
Labour Government, but the National Government has moved to provide further assistance
to the private sector.
Last year, the private sector subsidy scheme was introduced in Northland and Gisborne.
Yesterday, I answered a question by the member for Whangarei, and gave him the numbers
of those who ended up in permanent employment. As was said at the time, it was a pilot
scheme, a shot in the dark, but it was tried, and today I can tell the House, in praise of the
Budget, that it was successful, as those who listened to that answer would have accepted. We
have reintroduced the scheme this year. Finance is made available through the Budget to
extend the scheme to places such as Hamilton, Rotorua, Gisborne-which had it last
year-Napier, Hastings, New Plymouth, Blenheim, Greymouth, and Invercargill. Funda-
mentally, it is aimed at improving the situation for those who could become permanently
unemployed. We do not want to get into a situation such as is seen on the western seaboard
of the United States, where seven generations of a single family have never had a full-time
job. The aim of this scheme is to stop potentially unemployable people developing into a
state of living on social welfare, living on the State, and so on. The objective is to provide
productive and productive" is the key word-full-time employment, particularly for
younger people who would otherwise be unemployed.
As I indicated the other day, a most outstanding success story that comes to mind is in
the white work section, where young girls are taught to sew and are boosted up to a
productive level such that an employer can take them on without having to train them or
absorb training losses. The scheme can be used for persons with a real employment problem,
no matter what their age. It is aimed at creating further jobs in the private sector, thus
promoting production and balancing-and I use the word "balancing" deliberately-the use
of special work scheme employment in the public sector. We have no intention of subsidising
what the ratepayers should be doing, but I have already alluded to some special avenues and
might again if time permits. The scheme is also aimed at upgrading skills and attitudes, and
gives an employer the opportunity to train a worker to become fully productive. A 33
subsidy is offered on the weekly wage rate-a minimum of $25 and a maximum of $45. This
will encourage employers to take on trained apprentices-and heaven knows we are short
enough of those people-giving them an opportunity for a long-term commitment to engage
and train a skilled work force. I am sure the Opposition would agree that we need that.
Assistance is to be given to organisations operating voluntary and other work rehabilita-
tion schemes. There has been a growing concern for young persons with poor work records.
Special work has been provided through local authorities, and that will continue in parklands
and museums. Members will recall that three or four questions have been answered on this
matter. In Christchurch we have been promoting work through the Tana Mahi Trust-I
hope my pronunciation of Maori is correct. Young people working with the trust have been
given training in work habits, a new skill development. Only yesterday I dealt with an
extension of that in the Upper Hutt area, and today, in this House, a question was answered
about the events of last weekend in that district. We want to get those youngsters out,
probably cribwalling or repairing flood damage, both of which go beyond the normal routine
requirements of ratepayer assistance. Some in the Christchurch area have taken semi-skilled
landscape labouring at the Christchurch Technical Institute. In Auckland the Mahi Tahi
Trust has recently been formed. Again, for the member for Northern Maori, I hope my
pronunciation is correct.
Hon. M. Rata: The Minister is doing very well.
Hon. J. B. GORDON: Thank you very much. I appreciate the compliment from the
member for Northern Maori. That recently formed trust is working closely with the New
Zealand Museum of Transport and Technology in laying a railway track through the
grounds, and that touches a soft spot in me. I hope the museum eventually gets the tramline
and railway line built right round the proposed airport and the zoo. Similar work co-
operative trusts may be established in Palmerston North and Whangarei, and, as I have
already indicated, we initiated moves in my office yesterday towards establishing the same


## p. 2102 (#558) ###########################################

2102
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
type of work in the Wellington district.
Through community rehabilitation the employment service is helping slow learners, the
disabled, and the disadvantaged. We have been learning through our educational system
lately. There has been a lot of criticism. The scheme and the private subsidy scheme are
aiming at taking up people who have tried themselves but have failed. We are trying to
educate them into a new way of life. The Government is concerned to reduce the
disproportionate number of unemployed under the age of 21, and that is basically where the
scheme is aimed. I hope I can claim that it is now working.
I now want to turn to the vexed question of industrial stoppages, on which I answered a
question this afternoon. More than half the industrial stoppages last year were over wage
regulations or the wage freeze. I trust that figure will be reduced from next Monday. Three-
quarters of the non-industrial stoppages were in protest against the Government's fiscal
measures to restore the economy. Then by far the most significant effect on man-days lost
would have been the arrival of nuclear ships here. However, I do not wish to be sidetracked
into discussing the merits or non-merits of that issue. That is in effect the history of the last
12 months of our industrial relations. There are reasons why we have had these unenviable
difficulties. I wonder if members opposite would have lifted the wage restraints we had on
last year. I doubt it, in the light of their experience in 1973. Most sections of the community
have accepted and still do accept some degree of restraint. The statistics for the first quarter
of 1977 show a drop in the number of man-days lost last year. There has been a vast
improvement, which I trust will continue.
This Budget faces up to major short-term difficulties while building a better future for
all New Zealanders, but we need to have regard to some economic priorities. The Budget is
comprehensive and broad based. It is specific in priority areas so that we can re-establish a
basis for growth. I have mentioned some of those areas within my portfolios. We have to
stimulate efficient industries and promote the better use of resources. Those are almost
clichés, but we must bear them in mind. An overall strategy of economic development has
been recognised in the provisions of the Budget.
I want to deal now with some of the other aspects that have troubled me not only as
Minister but as a member of Parliament in my own electorate. I am thinking about farming. I
have already spoken about the rural water schemes. This Budget will help young farmers
acquire their first farms. There is a positive incentive for older farmers to get off the land so
that the young can come in. Thereby we will be improving working skills and the work force.
Inflation-adjusted savings bonds were sought by the Federation of Labour during discussions
about wages and restraints and what the priorities should be. I readily admit that the Budget
provisions are not as widespread as the federation would like, but some limitation was
needed.
The most troublesome issue that faces me, and possibly the country, today is the
industrial unrest in the freezing industry. I would be the first to concede that the level of
stoppages is far too high, but it is sporadic. It is confined to some works; there is no trouble
in others. The stoppages concern my department and me, and they certainly concern the
mediation service which we have established and extended. They concern the freezing
companies, Federated Farmers, and everyone else—including, probably, most members of
the House. Consequential upon a recent Federated Farmers conference I am delighted that
Federated Farmers, together with the Minister of Agriculture, have made a move that will
lead to a meeting in these buildings next week to look at the overall situation.
Apart from looking at transport, hygiene regulations, pelting machines, and other
matters, I propose to try to arrange a seminar of all interested parties to discuss one issue
only which we think is paramount in solving the problems in New Zealand's largest industry.
That would be a seminar of all involved in the freezing industry, and it must include some of
the members of boards of directors. It must not stop with personnel managers or general
managers. We must get the boards of New Zealand freezing companies more interested in
the human relations involved in the industry. I speak that way deliberately. I regret to say
that far too often we have found that an unsympathetic note from the board has spread
through to the management. That is what leads to a confrontation situation such as we have
in Southland, something I deplore but about which I shall be forced to take action,
unpleasant though it may be. I hope that that seminar and other moves being made will
assist. It would be idle for me to pretend that this would solve the problems facing us in the
coming freezing works season, but that is a major hurdle facing us all. I am delighted that so
far the problem has not become a political issue. I have had nothing but co-operation from
the unions which have visited my office. They quietened the situation early this year.


## p. 2103 (#559) ###########################################

11 August
2103
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Finally, if we cannot achieve what we are trying to do in our industrial relations, which is
true understanding and communication, and above all mutual trust between all the parties,
the Government will have to intervene. That also applies to today's events with the removal
of the wage restraints. We have accepted that the trade union movement, through its
spokesman the Federation of Labour, and the representatives of the Employers Federation
will accept social responsibility on a wages policy that will guide the destiny of New Zealand
and that will smooth industrial relations which are vital for our production and for the
betterment of our country.
Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast): I have heard 17 Budgets read and debated in this
House. This was probably the most predictable, and certainly the most disappointing. It
offers no hope of getting New Zealand out of the mire in the short term. Whatever happens
in future will happen not because of anything the Government has done but through the
good fortune of an oil or gas strike. The Budget fell down on one thing the National
Government has been promising for years the restructuring of the taxation system. Most
people expected that. If anything, this Budget has made the rich richer and the poor poorer.
How could anyone take a Budget seriously when the estimate of revenue was out by
between $400 million and $500 million? If the Minister of Finance was in charge of a bookies
association or a TAB and budgeted like that he would either go to the wall or go for a
scarper. That is inefficiency. If Treasury is to blame then the heads of those responsible
should fall. If it is not Treasury's fault then the head of the Minister of Finance should fall.
The other matter is that this Government has boosted interest rates. This country has
been screaming out for years for the lowering of interest rates. Now moneylenders are being
allowed to charge between 10 percent and 15 percent. How they must be clapping their
hands. Also, stock and station agents will now be able to take more from the farmers.
Previously if they charged more than 10 percent they were classed as moneylenders, but now
they can charge up to 15 percent, and that will be a millstone around the necks of those who
borrow for the rest of their lives. The farmers have my sympathy. After all, interest is only
the cost of borrowed money. If a man wants to work hard there is no point in his getting
money that way. He will have to get it somewhere else or in some other way.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Mr BLANCHFIELD: Before the tea adjournment I was taking the Government to task
for raising interest rates, instead of bringing them down in the interests of New Zealand.
They have done that to help the moneylenders—a small group of people with control over
lending. Since I made those remarks I have seen an advertisement on television for the
Government cash loan. The background music to that advertisement was a song called
"Tristesse", which means sadness.
Dr Shearer: Oh no!
Mr BLANCHFIELD: I do not know who set that up-whether it was the Minister of
Finance or our cultural friend from Hamilton East-because one line in the song goes "Will
the memory haunt me till I die?" The memory of this Budget will certainly haunt many
people. The tax cuts totalling $85 million for single-income families and for the man whose
working wife earns more than $7.22 a week, were, as somebody once said, little more than a
nibble at a mountain of inequalities that grows bigger every day inflation continues. The
Minister of Finance could not give away barley loaves and fishes, much less millions of
pounds, to those who deserve it-the people trying to raise families in these days of high
inflation.
People in industry are very disappointed in the Budget. From the Otago Daily Times to
the New Zealand Herald, from the Waikato Times to the Marlborough Express, we see
articles from industrialists who are against the Budget. They are disappointed because no
encouragement has been given, and interest rates have not been reduced. No incentive has
been given for employees to work overtime to make better use of expensive capital
equipment and plant, particularly for export production. I will give the Budget the little
credit due to it and admit that export industries are not so badly off compared to non-
exporting industries. With the internal economy as it is, with the high rate of inflation, and
with industrial unrest, these industries will not be taking risks by sending their goods
overseas, but will be languishing in the bad times they are going through with this
Government. The Government is gambling by looking after the export industries, and
hoping overseas markets will turn out well.
The amount of money required to be invested in Government stock by trustee savings
banks has been reduced, but at the same time interest rates for their competitors have been
allowed to rise. The Auckland Savings Bank, which weekly lends about $0.75 million for


## p. 2104 (#560) ###########################################

2104
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
housing after paying $2.3 million in interest, has had to charge 11 percent for second
mortgages. As the only member of Parliament who is president of a trustee savings bank, I
speak with some knowledge. I know what my own bank is going through, seeing our
depositors faced with advertisements offering interest rates of 13 and 14 percent, and trying
to encourage people to put their money into our bank at 3 percent, or even 8 percent. No
trustee savings bank can keep up with the 15 percent ceiling placed on interest rates in the
Budget.
The Government appears to have finally woken up to the fact that New Zealand has
been spending far too much on energy. The country pays $500 million a year for oil, yet New
Zealand is sitting pretty on indigenous fuels, hydro works, and geothermal power. The
Government has now decided to do something about it. But it is forgetting one thing, and I
quote Mr A. Henry, fuel technologist at the Coal Centre. He points out how valuable coal is
compared with oil and hydro-generated electricity in producing energy, and that it is still the
cheapest form of heating, costing 34c per therm compared with 62c for oil and 64c for
electricity. That is a startling comparison, yet the Government will not introduce up-to-date
methods of coal mining or encourage the use of coal-fired heating appliances, and has put
out of work a lot a men who know nothing else but mining. The Reefton mine has already
closed, and the one at Liverpool is about to, and that spells the end for the large mining
force. The Government should consider harnessing the coal industry to supply our energy.
The Minister of Trade and Industry entertained us to the greatest push-over since
Noah's ark put to sea. He brought in tins of Brasso, Silvo, spaghetti, and dog food, and a
packet of Persil, and told us that in the "snob" area of Karori the grocers were selling these
items at low prices. I think he is dreaming. I cannot imagine the Minister pushing a little
trolley around and buying these items at below cost, unless they were rusty and old. Has the
Minister not heard of specials? Everybody knows that most grocers put out specials, but it is
not economic to go around hunting for them because with petrol the price it is, and the cost
of parking meters, by the time you drive around the block a couple of times and find a place
to park you have spent the money you thought you had saved. The Minister should do some
more shopping, but it is evident he does not go near the grocery shops.
Mr Bell: What about one of your West Coast horses?
Mr BLANCHFIELD: He would probably say they were going cheap. He has given us
the great story about Rinso, Silvo, Persil, and other articles. He played his biggest trick by
putting those articles on the table. Welcome, my friend.
Hon. L. R. Adams-Schneider I've been listening on the radio.
Mr BLANCHFIELD: The Minister showed Parliament the greatest trick since members
found out how to saw women in half. The families did not fall for that trick. The Minister
took a gamble. It was like many of the horses one backs at the races-they never win. I hope
that Persil still sells for that low price, because in this morning's Press an article stated that
food prices were up again. I wondered whether the Minister would see the article, so I have
brought it in for him. Food that could be bought for $1 in 1975 is now worth 77c. Food prices
have risen by 17.8 percent in the last year. When the Prime Minister was Minister of Finance
in the second National Government he promised a reconstruction of taxation to give
everybody a fairer go. The highly respected Leader of the Opposition put forward a very
good hypothesis in his Budget speech. He said that we could take any three members as an
example; we could take the member for Hamilton East, his mate the little bloke from
Dunedin, and anyone else—the member for Gisborne. Let us suppose that they all have jobs
giving them an income of $8,600 a year and all are in their fifties; and that yesterday one of
them turned 60, and for passing "go" is given an added gross income of $4,300, increasing his
income to $12,900. That is better than striking Tatts. When the second member was on his
way to work he was involved in a serious automobile accident, and was injured so badly that
he was no longer able to work. [Interruption.]
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The member having the floor is getting far too much assistance
from the crossbenches.
Mr BLANCHFIELD: Because the member had an accident he was entitled to accident
compensation amounting to 80 percent of his former income, and his income dropped back
by $1,700. Now comes the crunch. The third member, the youngest, who still has children at
secondary school, had a coronary and the doctor said he would never work again. He could
not claim accident compensation, because he did not have an accident. He was not entitled
to the Government's superannuation, because he was far too young. He will wind up with a
sickness benefit of $3,600 a year on which to support a wife and children. In our hypothetical
story one gentleman's income is $3,600, another's is $6,900, and the other bloke, who is


## p. 2105 (#561) ###########################################

11 August
2105
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
feathered and well, gets $12,900. Is that just? No. It is no wonder the Latin expression fiat
justitia, ruat coelum would be better-let justice be done, though the heavens fall.
Most Labour members have pointed out that housing costs have soared, and that the
Government is not building enough houses. Houses are assets if they are well built, and if
looked after they will stand for many decades. We have heard that the Post Office's profits
have gone up with such a bang that it will make $100 million.
This is one of the few opportunities I have to put forward the views of my electorate,
which could become a Cinderella area because of pressure from an outside vocal minority.
Scientists came to a seminar on the West Coast and said that 124 241 acres of land should be
put into reserves for insects-bugs and bees. Do they want to make the West Coast a
museum? The land is wanted for scientific bugs, beetles, soils, and God knows what. My
friend the member for Hamilton East has admitted in print, and has been man enough to
admit it to me, that wrong as he is he still prefers trees and birds to people. He does not like
sawmills being built beside the trees, even though they give men and women a living wage
and keep them in their homes. Would he like me to advocate that the University of Waikato
in Hamilton be pulled down, because it spoils the look of the Waikato River? Would he like
me to suggest that we get rid of the cattle in the Waikato and put the area back into trees?
Oh no. Many people who call themselves conservationists-we call them preservationists-
want the West Coast to be returned to the way it was when Abel Janszoon Tasman and
Captain Cook came to this country.
I have said that the Westland Savings Bank is doing a great job for the West Coast. I
wish the listening public could have the opportunity to read the submissions being made to
the Minister about the effect the conservation methods would have on the Westland Savings
Bank. The bank was founded in 1867 and is expanding all the time. Twenty-five percent of
its depositors live in sawmill houses, and 15 percent of the bank's finance is with ancillary
industries-carriers or tradesmen-and doctors or scientists. The bank should have a big say
in the future of the West Coast. We have some good submissions here. I wish I had time to
read them, but I will say that the bank is also prepared to play ball in giving a small slice to
the national park down in south Westland. It played ball because it was decided to leave the
West Coast for some years, while the timber throughout the rest of New Zealand is being
cut. We are prepared to give that strip as a compromise-and also because it is mostly
swamp anyway. When the Cook River changed, nobody bothered to protect the white pine
trees. It was not the water that drowned them, it was silt. Trees will not stand silt around
their roots. There are dead and dying trees all over south Westland because of the silt left
around their roots. If the bank went it would be a terrific disadvantage, because I think
Canterbury would say no to taking the Westland Savings Bank under its wing.
I have another little point to clear up-the Maruia Declaration. That was another push-
over. According to the Beech Leaves organisataon, there were 344 000 signatures, including
six Rob Muldoons. They rubbed him out, however; as the Leader of the Opposition said, his
signatures depreciated the petition. They also had the signature of a joker called Denis
Holcroft, who has one of the mills on the West Coast. They forged his name. I believe they
had my name too, but somebody said, "No, he might use it in the House". The people from
the Beech Leaves office told the people gathering signatures to hold the Maruia Declaration
at the top so that nobody could read the small print. They were also told what patter to use.
They gathered signatures, and the result was a big bundle of paper, all made from timber,
that has come to the House. It will go before the committee that will decide whether we will
import timber with our overseas funds, or whether we will use some of the many millable
trees in Westland-5 percent of commercially millable trees. All we ask for in Westland is to
be allowed to continue cutting for 10 years or so until the exotics come up. There are enough
reserves in Westland to suit all the tourists from here to Hong Kong.
Many conservationists say that if you cut down the native trees you take away a lot of
the natural carbon dioxide. But for every acre of mature tree growth cut, the equivalent of 6
and sometimes 8 acres of trees is planted, mainly exotics. In a beech forest you could have 10
times the amount of trees with exotics. The exotics grow pretty fast if they are given a bit of
superphosphate. That is what we have to offer as a contribution to the health of the nation. I
ask members to remember that. I ask them not to let our coal mining or our timber industry
go down any further, otherwise they will have a Cinderella province on their hands, a
province that should be making an even bigger contribution towards the development of the
Dominion of New Zealand than it has in the last 100 years.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): It is always a pleasure to follow the
member for West Coast. I want him to know how warmly his return to the House has been


## p. 2106 (#562) ###########################################

2106
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
welcomed, and how sorry I am that he was not in poetic mood tonight. It does something for
the House and for every one of us to hear the honourable member wax lyrical. He had
something to say about coal on the coast, and I know full well that he knows that Liverpool
coal is suitable only for the manufactured gas industry. I suspect he also knows that every
effort is being made to move miners from Liverpool to the Strongman mine. I suspect he
realises that there is not much point in mining the coal at Liverpool if there is no market for
it. He spoke about superannuation, and I shall comment on that later. I had thought first of
all to ask the member for West Coast-as he has been referring to items in the
newspaper-what he thinks about the surprise Labour choice for a contentious seat that was
announced in the newspaper tonight.
Mr Blanchfield: Do you want my answer?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I wonder how he thought the people on the West Coast
would react to that sort of treatment. He has said from time to time that he is a democrat.
Mr Blanchfield: The salt of the earth.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: The people on the West Coast? Yes, I would not argue with
him at all about that. After the Labour Party conference this year I said that there is a
considerable difference between democratic socialists and social democrats. I did not realise,
and I suspect that the Labour Party did not realise either, that the proof of the pudding
would come quite so quickly after the conference. The point is that the social democrat is a
democrat first and a socialist second, whereas the democratic socialists are proving that they
are socialists first and democrats second. Where else than in the Labour Party, which
presents itself as a democratic party, would one find that the people in the local branches
have been invited to canvass support for the fellow of their choice, that they have gone to a
selection committee meeting to vote for the person they want, and that they then find
themselves with a tie, and with headquarters determining the issue for them? The Labour
Party does not trust its own people. It simply does not trust them to make a decision in their
own interests. What is more, on this occasion the choice at Papatoetoe-
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Very nice people, too.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: Yes, but I do not think they will say precisely that about the
president of the Labour Party after the way they have been treated. He has said to them,
"Look, you can forget all about nominating candidates, because we have got a bloke who
didn't even want the seat. He didn't nominate for the seat, and there is nobody in the
electorate to support his nomination, but the Labour Party head office says he is the fellow
you are to have." He did not even have enough interest to seek the nomination; but, adding
injury to insult, the Labour Party organisation simply says to them, "Well, this is the man
you are going to have, and all those fellows you have been working for can go away." That is
not the image of a democratic party, and I suspect the president of the Labour Party in his
heart is a little bit embarrassed about it-more than a little bit embarrassed—and I guess he
will hear something about it from the people in the electorate. I repeat a comment I made on
another occasion: that there was that piece of paper, distributed by the Labour Party, urging
people to make extravagant statements because they would get the headlines, and I
remember that the leader of the Labour Party-
Mr Talbot: Which one?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: The honourable member who is apparently the leader of the
Labour Party. He started off with a couple of these headline-catching statements—the
Government was going to call a snap election. Then it was going to go to the International
Monetary Fund. Next the Leader of the Opposition took the point that the estimates this
year include an item of $930 million for national superannuation. So what does the leader of
the Labour Party do? What do other members of the Labour Party do? They suggest this is
the great increase, this is the cost.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: It is the cost.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: That is what is being represented. It is being represented as a
new figure. Not one member of the Labour Party has been prepared to say that it also
includes that which was universal superannuation, and that which would have been the age
benefit. All those items would have been on the estimates had the Labour Government still
been in office, but Labour members are not prepared to say that. Then we hear from them of
the way in which this is working to the detriment of various people. I want to talk about
taxation, and about the tax paid by a family man earning the average ordinary-time weekly
male wage.
Mr Reweti: Has he got a job?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: Yes, he has a job, and he is earning that ordinary-time


## p. 2107 (#563) ###########################################

11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
2107
weekly male wage. As a result of the tax changes in the Budget his wage is $129.52, his t
$17.66, and the tax as a percentage of his wage is 13.6 percent. Let us take that same f
and put him under a Labour Administration, still paying on the tax scales inherited fr
Labour Government. His wage is $129.52, and the tax would have been $30.664
percent of his wage, plus-and this is something that so many people forget-a
compulsory superannuation deduction, which is $3.24, so that his total tax under
Government would have been $33.90, or 26.2 percent of his wage. Today it is a
percentage-13.6 percent as against 26.2 percent. I do not know why Labo
never prepared to state these points. They are not even prepared to ackn
provision for universal superannuation and age benefit payments would
$600 million, even if they had been the Government, I presume.
Opposition, using this figure of $930 million, and the members
parroting him as usual, all omitted to say that national superannuatio
of the recipient. The Leader of the Opposition would have know
would be about $165 million, so he knew that the net additional cr
tion was $167 million-but, of course, $930 million is a good s
What does the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, who
Finance, say about the Budget? All this talk about the intern
he says; you should not worry about the budgetary defijs. I
wonder if the president of the Labour Party, the honor and
that the internal budgetary deficit should be reduced. Th
sum is borrowed. If it is borrowed internally, the Gr
that the
taxes in order to repay and beat the interest bill. If.ry, and did
they know it is inflationary. If they borrow it oversın." On what
fact is done then is that we borrow overseas in orsumably he has
ntinuing attack on
overseas earnings will not sustain. That is wh
deficit-and honourable members opposite k
the Opposition stands in the House and say
That's not the thing to worry about."
ld be stopped. If the
o have a piece of the
I refer now to a subject that has distiport the attack on public
what made him certain, as he said in the Public Service machine?
ask the simple question of the membe
leak to which he referred did not co
not come from the Legislative Der
e Minister's Department were
does he base that statement? If apart from the three members who
evidence to justify his allegatioe Leader of the Opposition was Prime
public servants—and they are,ointed in exactly the same way. What is
honourable member for Hact from their employers to bring in their
argument, I ask him if he
servants, and call them
isations that made those people available will
Hon. A. J. Faulknf bringing people into the public sector from the
Rt. Hon. B. E. ple who return to the private sector will be all the
were appointed un ember for Mt. Albert spoke about NAFTA and trade
appointed as are oth.
Peoere is a lack of positive action about NAFTA. We need to
Minister he had
more, four
f
get a very goeing experienced, but members opposite, and many other
particular expan perspective. A lot of nonsense is spoken, and NAFTA is
better for look at the trading difficulties with Australia. In 1967 our exports
private secif greater use had been made of NAFTA those difficulties would
with
This
million, and our imports $143 million, the ratio in Australia's favour
the National Government went out of office in 1972 exports to Australia
blaion, and imports about $260 million, the ratio in Australia's favour being
F1:4 to 1:2.3. By the end of the 1975 June year, 6 months before the 1975
exports to Australia totalled $167 million, and our imports $502 million, with
keer
1


## p. 2108 (#564) ###########################################

opriation Bill-Financial Statement
11 August
ax is
ellow
om the
or 23.7
2 percent
the Labour
bout half that
ar members are
owledge that +-
པས
ng 1:3. In 1976 our exports had increased to $263 million,
th the ratio in Australia's favour reduced to 1:1.9. For the
totalled $254 million, and our imports $487 million, the
92. I congratulate my colleague the Minister of Trade
m tribute to the officers of the department for the
the Tasman in seeking more trade for inclusion in
to increase that trade.
in
and
repared to say what the future ratio will be?
sendiniscover that as the months go by. The member
night-ernment does not consider, as he does, that
Hon. "nment the member for Mt. Albert was the
Rt. Hogement. I believe we will find continuing use
the member t
en raised by several members opposite,
that New Zealary Leader of the Oppositon, the member
Rt. Hon. B. E. 1 aboard the bandwagon this afternoon
Hon. W. W. gh-although I thought he was more
want to examine two as Leader of the Opposition put it last
that the problems woupied seeking new trade outlets than
his colleagues about the incr of the Opposition did. However,
parroted the story that in 1974-Government held to the belief
to hold to those major ma
by resolution of the Council of he?
dairy products sold on the Britis
Mt. Albert will remind
Accession. I mention that as a comet should not fool itself, and
products, it has obtained a recommenda er or not we should seek
Although New Zealand made a cities I have encountered. I
forgotten that although in August 1975 we an 1976-we received
increase. When we received the increase lamembers opposite has
criteria of the Dublin Declaration, agreemenent in the prices for
send, but reduced it to 23 000 tons. Few Oppositicar.
increase on the condition that New Zealand did nBritish Treaty of
or a 10 percent
so I suggest to members opposite and to others that erms of the
The argument was carried through July, August, Septen hould not be
experience-when the commissioners agreed to put a prop8 percent
for an 18 percent increase, which was in line with that paid tntitled to
period covered by the application. That 18 percent was finally back to
acceptable in Europe.
ercent.
974
ovel
While there was no formal understanding on the tonnages we
indication had been given of the likely outturn. Except for the questers
almost precisely where we are this year. Quite frankly the argument ae
Joe Walding or somebody else did-
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Childish.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I agree with the president of the Labour Par
that, when he has the opportunity, he will convey that message to the leader o.
Party. What we need to recognise is that Europe has changed in the intervening
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: We have been saying that for 10 years.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I assure the member that it is continuing to change.
the Leader of the Opposition should go over there to discover the extent to which
changed-unless, of course, he is concerned that there might be a coup while he is a
That is something that he has to worry about. Let us recognise that the Europeans to
Dosenber
ध


## p. 2109 (#565) ###########################################

11 August
2109
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
suffering a continuing economic recession, and their growth has slowed down. Unemploy-
ment is high, inflation is high, and, more specifically, there is a significant surplus of dairy
produce not that that is anything new. They agreed this year on a reduced increase of 3
percent in the price for dairy products, and in addition they have agreed to impose a co-
responsibility levy on their farmers to try to persuade them to produce less dairy produce.
There is a shrinking British market, and there is a determination by European producers to
capture as much as they possibly can of New Zealand's share of the market. Although we
could and did justify a higher increase, it was seen as not politically acceptable. That is
precisely the situation we have encountered before. Over the same period as our application
covered, European farmers have received about 10 percent. In spite of the difficulties, let me
tell the member for Mt. Albert that he is living in a world of his own if he imagines we can
ignore the European market. It is now, and will be in the foreseeable future, vital that we
retain the right of access to that market. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition says that we
should be seeking new markets, and we are.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Where?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: Round the world. If the member looks at the figures in the
Dairy Board's annual report he will see the tremendous effort that has been made. Members.
opposite can say, "Don't hold on, get away and find new markets." Where would the
member for Mt. Albert market 250 000 tonnes of butter, if not in Europe? Maybe one should
ask the member for Christchurch Central, because he gave me some remarkable advice. He
said that I was a fool to go to Ireland when all I would do would be to upset the Irish. On that
basis one should not go at all. We will get more out of Europe as a result of the visit than we
would have if we had adopted the Labour Party attitude, which is not to go to Europe but to
go elsewhere. We are working hard to persuade our partners in GATT that there is a need
for international arrangements, and with the measure of agreement that has been reached
between the United States of America and the community, there is much greater hope of
doing that today than there was a few months ago.
Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central): I listened carefully to the Acting Prime Minister.
Although he is much more highly regarded than his leader by this side of the House I am
disappointed in him as a South Island member. The Budget is aimed directly against the
South Island, and the Acting Prime Minister supported the various Budget provisions-such
as increased heating costs, increased sales tax on dryers, and so on-that will affect the South
Island. He was critical of comments made by the member for Auckland Central criticising
the publicity section in the Prime Minister's Department. Can anyone blame the Opposition
for being critical and suspicious when previously the Prime Minister's power was absolute?
We now have about 70 people working for the Prime Minister's Department, and they
attempt to run the show. That is why the Opposition is critical. Those people are not elected.
The Acting Prime Minister was also critical of the member for Mt. Albert, who was a
successful Minister and will be just as successful as Minister of Overseas Trade in the Labour
Government that will be formed after the 1978 election. The Budget has been a bitter
disappointment to the Government's supporters-and there are not very many of them left.
Great promises were made about tax relief, but they did not materialise in the Budget. Some
small relief was given to certain families-in my opinion, to the wrong families. Why place
the emphasis on those with young children? The following statement appears on page 39 of
the Budget: "In addition, a new rebate is to be introduced for single-income families with a
child under 10." It goes on: "This new rebate will considerably reduce the disadvantage
suffered by single-income families under the present personal income tax structure. In
families where the youngest child has reached 10 years of age, there is generally more scope
for the wife to supplement the family income by working full or part time." It is from that
stage on that the child-the teenager-needs more parental care, so why imply that mothers
are free to go out to work when their children reach that age? The Government should be
ensuring the husband's take-home pay is sufficient to keep the wife and mother in the home
and support those children.
Mr Friedlander: What about the committee's report?
Mr MacDONELL: I hope that the member for New Plymouth is listening, because he
probably supported the Budget. The Government should ensure that these wives and
mothers are kept in the homes. Financial help should be given to those with teenage
children. Teenagers are very expensive. They eat as much as, and often more than, their
fathers. Their shoes and clothing, and other requirements, are as expensive as those of
adults. Right through the secondary schooling period school uniforms are extremely
expensive. Why not allow the cost of school uniforms during the teenage years as a tax


## p. 2110 (#566) ###########################################

2110
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
deduction? Retailers' receipts could be attached to the tax return at the end of the year.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Without limit?
Mr MacDONELL: Yes, without limit, and throughout the secondary school period.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Why not put a means test on superannuation?
Mr MacDONELL: That is all right. I am saying that parents have a special need when
their children are at high school and they should be given some assistance with school
uniforms. It is during that period that the really heavy costs are incurred by a family.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: What about when they are at primary school?
Mr MacDONELL: Certainly there may be problems then, but the problems are even
greater with teenage children who have to be supported while they are at high school. That is
the time relief is needed. The Government should be providing some assistance to parents of
secondary school children through the taxation system.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: Even when both parents work?
Mr MacDONELL: I suggest that both parents should not be working. If the Govern-
ment provided the assistance I am talking about and ensured that the husband was employed
and paid decent wages, the wife would not have to work. This National Government is the
highest taxing Government in the history of the country. I emphasise that it has taxed its
citizens higher than any other Government. Of course, it has had to do so to maintain its
very expensive superannuation scheme. I have no doubt whatever about that. Had Labour
remained the Government, our scheme would not have drained funds from the Govern-
ment's coffers in the way national superannuation has, and extra money would have been
available for more housing, more roading, more educational facilities, and improved social
services. That is the situation, and Government members are well aware of it.
National superannuation costs $400 million in a full year, and that amount of money is
being taken from the taxpayers. If we had remained in office, our scheme would have been
self-supporting, and not dragged money out of the taxpayers' pockets. During the election
campaign the man who is now our Prime Minister told us that imports would be controlled
under the National Government. They are now running about 30 percent higher than at any
time when the Labour Government was in office. The import deposit scheme was introduced
on 2 February 1976. One of the basic provisions of that scheme is that importers of certain
goods are required to pay one-third of the cost of the goods into a special fund with the
Reserve Bank. The purpose of the scheme, of course, was to reduce imports. In fact, it has
saved only about $1 million in a full year, while our imports are now costing more than
$3,000 million a year.
Mr Talbot: Why does the member hate progress?
Mr MacDONELL: What sort of progress is that? The reduction is infinitesimal. I assure
the member for South Canterbury that I do not hate progress; nor does any other Opposition
member. As a result of the scheme, many small businesses are running into very severe
liquidity problems. Because they are forced to deposit a third of the cost of imported goods
many are in serious difficulties. Imports were hardly mentioned in the Budget. I consider
that very strange, because the author of the Budget conducted the greater part of his last
election campaign on that very issue. The former Labour Government kept people in work
and ensured there was a job for everyone. Imports are now considerably higher than they
were at that time, and thousands of people are out of work or on relief work. In addition,
many of those who acquired skills in New Zealand, assisted by the Government, are now
using them in other countries. In the past year 19 000 people have left our shores. We have
lost them, and many have gone for good..
What has the Government done in the housing field? Certainly there is nothing in the
Budget to control spiralling interest rates on loans for new houses, let alone any assistance
for the purchase of existing homes. I never cease to be amazed that the National Govern-
ment makes no effort at all to provide funds to enable existing houses to be purchased.
Thousands and thousands of sound homes are on the market in every town and city in the
country. However, because interest rates are not controlled, investors are putting their
money where they can obtain 10 percent virtually at call, and 12 percent or more on a fixed
deposit for less than a year. Consequently the traditional moneylenders for existing homes,
the legal offices, now have no money for that purpose, and people are forced to borrow from
finance houses at internal rates of 12, 14, 16 or 18 percent for second and third mortgages.
Why does the Government allow that situation to continue?
Housing construction is in the doldrums. It was stated recently that it is worse off than at
any other time during the past 30 years. So much for the economic miracle we were told
about by the president of the National Party! Why is it that the building industry has always


## p. 2111 (#567) ###########################################

11 August
2111
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
been used as an economic tool by successive National Governments? In the past 12 months
6000 skilled tradesmen have left New Zealand, and the rate of new house construction has
fallen by a massive 30 percent in that time. Under this Government, borrowing has reached
an all-time high. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister stomped the country saying he
would control borrowing it is higher now than at any time under the former Labour
Government. That is another broken promise.
Hon. H. C. Templeton: That's not correct.
Mr MacDONELL: I can tell the Minister of Broadcasting that considerably more than
$2 million per day has been borrowed since the Government took office 20 months ago, and
during a time when our overseas reserves have been continually rising. The Prime Minister
has broken almost every promise he made in 1975.
I turn now to regional development, a subject on which a great deal has been said and
written by the National Government, but one on which very little action has been taken.
Last year $5.3 million was voted for expenditure on regional development during 1976-77,
but only $3.75 was expended. This year the estimates provide $4.3 million for regional
development for 1977-78, a decrease of $1 million on the amount voted last year. Govern-
ment members will no doubt claim that as only $3.75 million was spent last year that
represents an increase. However, it was the Government's fault that the full amount of $5.3
million voted for regional development last year was not spent. The Government put all
possible frustrations in the way of those who applied for assistance under the regional
development scheme. I know from reports I receive from regional development councils
throughout the country that everything possible was done to prevent assistance being
provided to those who applied for it. That is the reason the vote was underexpended, and in
fact this year the amount of $4.3 million being allocated represents a considerable reduction
from the $5.3 million voted last year.
Mr Talbot: What a lot of twaddle.
Mr MacDONELL: I remind the member for South Canterbury that he would not have a
job on the regional development council in his area if we had not established that council and
appointed him to it. The South Canterbury Regional Development Council was established
under the Labour Government. I remind the House of a statement made in November 1972
by the then Prime Minister, Sir John Marshall. He said that the Government could do
nothing in that area until more studies were completed-conveniently forgetting that the
position had been studied for about 15 years. The present member for Dunedin North pulled
out of the National Party in disgust-a commendable gesture-but he bounced back in 1975
and was duly elected as the National member for Dunedin North.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: And what a bounce back that was.
Mr MacDONELL: Yes, and he will bounce right out again in 1978. He was appointed as
the candidate for Dunedin North and was reported in the Otago Daily Times of 12
November 1975 as having said to 35 people in Sawyers Bay, "Freight subsidies would be
continued under a National Government, and would be expanded for different companies
on the recommendation of the Otago Regional Development Council." I wonder what he
thinks of that statement today, because many of those companies' subsidies have been
completely abolished, while others have had their subsidies continued on a diminishing
basis-20 percent for this year, 15 percent next year, 10 percent the following year, and after
that chopped completely. Whereas in 1975 the National Party candidate for Dunedin North
said a National Government would continue and expand freight subsidies, they are now
being phased out. We were told before the Budget-
Mr Cooper: Have you read the Budget?
Mr MacDONELL: Yes, and I have not finished with the member for Dunedin North.
What were all these wonderful things in the Budget to assist regional development in Otago,
and the South Island generally, that the member for Dunedin North led us to believe the
Budget contained? We have this pioneer scheme to assist industry, comprising a suspensory
loan of up to 10 percent of the cost of plant and machinery with a limit of $50,000. That is not
what is needed in the South Island. At this time we are not concerned with new industry,
although it would be nice to get new industry into the area. We want to retain the base
industries, those that are already established. Surely the National Government has learned
that it should be providing assistance to contain and retain industries already established in
the South Island.
Mr Talbot: Have you read the Budget? Why did the member not listen to my Budget
speech?
Mr MacDONELL: Of course I have. We should be assisting the retention of existing


## p. 2112 (#568) ###########################################

2112
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
industries in Otago and the rest of the South Island. I am still trying to find out what the
freight differential is all about.
Mr Talbot: Are you against it?
Mr MacDONELL: I would support it, if I knew what it was all about. It was enunciated
in the Budget by the Minister of Finance, and the Minister of Regional Development has
made certain statements about the budgetary provisions, but as yet, they have not told us
what this freight differential rate is all about.
Mr Talbot: Just wait patiently.
Mr MacDONELL: We are prepared to wait, but we think we shall all be disappointed.
The Government is trying to build on crumbling foundations. Surely the Government has
learned its lesson about protecting existing industries.
Richard Walls: Name one.
Mr MacDONELL: All right, I shall give three, not just one. Last year A.B. Consoli-
dated put off 200 workers.
Mr Talbot: They came to Makikihi.
Mr MacDONELL: A.B. Consolidated put them off. As I have mentioned before in this
House, we have lost the St. George canning factory, and A.H.I., which made the cans for St.
George, has also folded up. St. George put off 70 workers and A.H.I. 40-110 in all. We
must remember that other people provided the produce to keep those businesses going. I
know of people on the Taieri plains who were growing the berries to provide the jam to keep
St. George going, but they have lost those contracts under this National Government, which
is unconcerned about the direct and indirect effects on people. Apparently the Government
thinks it a joke that people are out of work.
Mr SPEAKER: We have having far too much zealous interjecting from the cross
benches.
Mr MacDONELL: Cartage contractors, carriers, and others have also been affected by
the Government's lack of concern for South Island industry. It is not prepared to assist
regional development. In 1975, the Labour Cabinet gave a good example of what could be
done to assist industry. On behalf of the New Zealand Shipping Corporation it approved a
contract for construction of 1100 reefer boxes-container boxes-for the Shipping Corpora-
tion. That contract was accepted by George and Ashton, a member of the A.H.I. group. A
few weeks ago I visited that company in Dunedin. The contract was large, even by world
standards.
Mr Bruce Barclay: What would that contract be worth?
Mr MacDONELL: I cannot tell the member the exact cost of each reefer box, but the
contract would run into many millions of dollars, and any member visiting Dunedin would
find it worth while to see just what this company is doing. It has employed more than 100
extra staff who, at present, are working round the clock with 3 shifts 5 days a week. These
workers are producing very fine containers, better than those coming in from overseas.
Lloyds of London are overseeing the contract, the only one in New Zealand in which Lloyds
has an interest. The boxes are built to withstand a pressure of 81 tonnes on each corner,
assuming that they would be on the bottom of the hold. It is very important that these
containers are built to Lloyds' specification; if they collapsed, the ship could sink. Lloyds
have said that these Dunedin-built boxes are some of the best they have seen. That contract,
let by the Labour Government, was an example of practical regional development. The
Labour Government also let contracts for the building of buses by Emslie Consolidated Ltd
in Dunedin.
While on this subject of regional development and the utilisation of local facilities and
regional resources, let me say that I recently visited TV1 in Dunedin with the member for
Manukau. Increasing use is being made of the studios and the outside broadcast unit. In fact,
there has been a dramatic increase in the hours these facilities are used. Twenty-eight
percent of all TV1's New Zealand productions are produced in Dunedin.
Richard Walls: Thanks to the National Government.
Mr MacDONELL: No, thanks to the Labour Government which introduced the
Broadcasting Act that took effect from 1 April 1975. "Beauty and the Beast", shown
throughout New Zealand 4 days a week, is produced in Dunedin. "Play School" is shown 5
days a week, and is repeated twice. That is produced in Dunedin. "Spot On" is also
produced in Dunedin, as is the handyman programme "Of Course You Can Do It".
"University Challenge" and "Sunday's World" are also produced there. Nearly one-third of
all New Zealand produced programmes appearing on TV1 are produced in the Dunedin
studios. The national history unit has been working for most of this year on a programme


## p. 2113 (#569) ###########################################

11 August
2113
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
featuring the Otago peninsula and other points of interest in Otago. That programme is to be
shown nationally next year. A large team has been working on it.
The outside broadcasting van has been used extensively for racing and other sporting
events and also for concerts in the Regent theatre. I am sure the member for Dunedin North
would be interested in that. There has been coverage of the Coronet Peak ski field. All those
things are providing work for the talented television staff in Dunedin, and we want to retain
it. With the building being so old, and because of a roading programme which might mean its
demolition, there have been suggestions that we could lose that work. I tell the Minister of
Broadcasting that we do not want to lose it. It is providing employment for specialists there.
That type of use justifies the retention of the studios in Dunedin.
The Labour Government completely restructured the Development Finance Corpora-
tion. Before 1972 only a trickle of finance came into Otago. In the Labour Government's last
year in office-1975-over $6 million of loan finance was injected into the province of
Otago. A great deal of assistance was provided for small industries throughout the country,
not just for those with regional development councils. That is a practical demonstration of
how the Labour Government assisted small industries. The Business Development Centre in
Dunedin could also be affected if this Government goes ahead with its proposed change to
the Development Finance Corporation Act. That agency has been doing a good job, as has
been mentioned by my colleague the member for Mt. Albert. I am concerned that it may be
affected by the legislation. I hope also that the Government will provide an office in Otago
for the Development Finance Corporation. It is badly needed there. Someone has to come
down from Christchurch at present. I hope that the Government and the Minister of Trade
and Industry will seriously consider establishing a separate office of the corporation in
Otago.
The NAFTA has been a particular disappointment that has affected the development of
the region. The Government has let the country down badly, particularly the clothing
industry and the whiteware industry. They face very serious problems. I know that in Otago
people who are leaving the clothing industry for various reasons are not being replaced. The
Government is to blame for not being able to arrange a better agreement with the
Australians. The Government has shown a total disregard for the problems of our people.
We are faced with record taxes, record borrowing, record imports, and record rates of
interest. The people have learned their lesson. They have flirted once too often with this
Government and will give it their answer in 1978.
Mr MINOGUE (Hamilton West): The member for Dunedin Central finished by saying
that we have had record everything, including record borrowing and record balance of
payments problems. I should like to put the record straight at the outset, because it is
essential that we deal in facts and not in fiction. We do not have record overseas borrowing;
that record was created by the previous Administration. I have here the gross amounts for
overseas borrowing. For the 18 months to the end of 1975, the total borrowed or arranged
was nearly $1,450 million. For the 18 months following December 1975, the figure was
$1,004.4 million, a reduction of approximately 50 percent. Far from showing record
borrowing, as alleged by the member for Dunedin Central, the true picture shows that the
period of record borrowing is over and that this Government has done something to stabilise
what threatened to become a runaway situation. As for the problems in the balance of
payments, the deficit for the year ended March 1975 was $1,370 million, or 14.6 percent of
the gross national product. For the year ended June 1977 the figure was $850 million, or 6.6
percent of the gross national product. Opposition members ideas of what constitutes a
record need to be straightened.
In this debate I wish to traverse certain matters which concern our economic situation,
the true picture of which is brought home by the figures I have just quoted. We have a
chronic situation in our balance of payments, and the difficulties here stem very largely from
overseas. In the face of these problems, the Government has embarked on stable, sensible,
and progressive policies; it has been concerned primarily to ensure the most effective use of
New Zealand's resources. To achieve that, it has been necessary to adapt-quite radically, in
some instances-to the new situation in which we find ourselves. Some very positive
adaptation has been undertaken by the Government.
I propose to give some examples, the first of which concerns the adaptation in local
government, where the Government is conscious of the need to adapt to the new situation
we now face, particularly in the shortage of resources and the need to make the funds the
are available go as far as possible. We have turned back for the time being the wasteful and
extravagant ideas of the previous Administration on what the reform of local government


## p. 2114 (#570) ###########################################

2114
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
might be all about. The typical response of the previous Government was a bureaucratic
one, which saw the answer as the establishment throughout New Zealand of 20 new regional
bureaucracies. On the available facts, which are indisputable, these could be neither staffed
nor financed, but as a bureaucratic exercise in futility they were to be established anyway.
This Government has recognised that the real task is that of basic planning, whether in our
cities or in general land use, with the object being to avoid waste as well as to achieve the
positive gains that come from sound planning in those areas. This Government's progressive
initiative will facilitate the planning of land use, without the establishment of new bureau-
cracies, on an effective, co-operative basis using existing local body staff. I am positive that
the changes involved will be achieved not without some argument and some debate, but that
is characteristic of the democratic, as opposed to the bureaucratic, process.
This Government has made quite radical responses in the field of energy. We know
there is an energy crisis not merely in this country but throughout the world. There has been
a swift and effective response from this Government. Hitherto fragmented departments and
committees are to be merged in the interests of more co-ordinated and efficient utilisation of
resources. A progressive step has been taken with the massive injection of funds and effort
into establishing the true extent of our indigenous energy resources, whether they be oil, gas,
coal, geothermal steam, or hydro.
In social welfare, the Government has recognised the new circumstances in which we
live; the most significant development has been the recognition of the importance of
voluntary agencies. In my city, in particular, many people would be much poorer and in
much deeper trouble than they are already, were it not for these voluntary agencies. These
people are doing invaluable and very necessary humanitarian work in connection with
children's homes, geriatric homes, and emergency accommodation; their work could never
be achieved effectively by a Government department. It is a great credit to New Zealand
that we have men and women in our communities who are prepared to act upon the basic
precepts of Christianity: the extending of practical help to fellow men and women. I am
proud the Government has recognised the value of this work and is setting out to assist the
increasing involvement of voluntary agencies in social welfare.
I draw a sharp line of distinction between what this Government is doing and what the
Labour Government proposed. That Government saw social welfare in terms of bureaucra-
tic forms, and produced its now notorious white paper, which would have turned one sector
of social welfare into another massive bureaucratic agency that would have been quite
incapable of discharging the basic practical humanitarian concerns I have just mentioned.
On rather similar lines, it is interesting to see that the Government has agreed to the
establishment of nurses' training facilities at the Waikato Technical Institute. This is
practical recognition of the need for changes in nursing training as a result of changes within
the community and within hospitals. To their great credit, nurses themselves have been
powerful advocates of changes of the kind that will result from technical institute training.
As a further indication of its progressive response to changing times and circumstances,
the Government has proposed changes in commercial law to curb doubtful practices that
have become associated in recent years with those companies that function mainly in the
financial field. The collapse of such companies has meant very heavy losses to small and
trusting investors. The Securitibank collapse, and the collapse of other companies before
that, indicated a need for clearer laws governing certain commercial practices. The proposed
introduction of the Security Advertising Bill, announced recently by the Minister of Justice,
is a progressive, if but first, step towards introducing some standards and some new ethics
into a sector of commercial practice that, in the light of today's circumstances, has simply got
out of hand.
There is one area of continuing wastage, which neither this Government nor, I think,
any Government could reduce dramatically, although continuing efforts must be made to do
so. By the end of July, 390 people had been killed on New Zealand roads this year, and the
total number killed last year was 365. Most of those deaths were senseless and needless. Two
or three days ago five young people were killed in one accident that occurred on a straight
road at 2 a.m. Accidents of this kind, on the face of it, are inexplicable and can be attributed
only to some kind of human folly, against which no law nor regulation is likely to prove
effective. If human folly is to blame, our problem is to know how to diminish human folly;
that problem is likely to be with us for a very long time.
The sheer wastage of young lives involved in the present toll is beyond all sense, but I
still believe that we must make efforts, doubtful though we may be about the efficacy of
some of them, to reduce this wastage. Investigations are being made at present into the


## p. 2115 (#571) ###########################################

11 August
2115
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
removal of technicalities from the laws concerning blood alcohol prosecutions. The present
complexities in the law mean that about 64 points can be advanced to defeat a prosecution,
and hours of traffic-officer time, and hence law enforcement by traffic officers, are lost in
this way. The law must be simplified; although there is no magic panacea in this, that might
be a small but effective contribution. Investigations are also being carried out into the
problems associated with blood alcohol testing. Here again there are technicalities and time-
consuming procedures, which would be substantially reduced if a satisfactory breath test
could be introduced.
Much work is still to be done if the slaughter on our roads is not to become a continually
enlarging tragedy. I am pleased. to acknowledge, as a member of the Road Safety Commit-
tee, that this area is happily beyond the realm of partisan politics. It is appropriate for me to
acknowledge the very positive attitudes always displayed by the member for Timaru, who I
know shares the concern I have expressed. All these changes involve changes in methods or
attitudes, or both, and I am proud to be associated with a Government that shows so much
positive initiative in these matters. I commend the Government accordingly.
Having said that, I think it is fair to say that the sheer sweep and scope of present change
throughout the world, and its speed and thorough-goingness, have created a need to adapt,
which none of us is meeting very adequately, and that in some areas a positive response has
yet to be made. I believe that in this country, when all the nonsense has been put aside, when
all the statistics are laid aside and we look at the broad picture, we are living in the shadow of
radical world change. We are involved in problems that concern the price of raw materials,
the world's energy resources, the balance of power struggle, and the determination of poor
countries to achieve a better share of the world's wealth. We live in an age of multi-national
corporations, and in an age in which the contrary phenomena of inflation and unemployment
have reached new and seemingly insoluble dimensions. Tremendous problems exist in
international finance, and at the same time technological change seems to advance at an
accelerating rate, notably in the field of computers and electronics. I believe the world is in
the process of a revolutionary change as fundamental as that associated with the industrial
revolution, which, as we know, demanded totally new attitudes and responses and required a
radical movement away from ideas and institutions that had become traditional.
It also required a change of laws. We are faced with the situation of having not only to
use our known and established resources to the best advantage, but also to see that our laws
and institutions by and large become adequate to meet the demands these changes are
making. The need for what I would call institutional change should be apparent to all.
Recent developments in this House-and I say this with the greatest respect-indicate that
this institution is in need of change as an urgent response to totally new circumstances.
Parliament must respond, and it would be remarkable if it were not called upon to reform
and alter itself in response to totally new problems and situations.
Our procedures, methods, and the way we spend our time are in need of a comprehen
sive review, if for no other reason than that so many procedures and methods have bee
overtaken by a radically changed world, and Parliament has to function in terms of nev
demands made upon it. Changes affecting this institution can be accomplished only fron
within it, and I call upon the senior members of the House to make change of that kind
possible by setting up an appropriate and representative select committee to suggest the
practical changes the House should adopt. I urge the senior members to pause from their
quite understandable preoccupation with day-to-day tasks and to find reasonable time to
initiate a select committee to recommend effective and progressive changes that will allow all
who serve here to contribute their time and efforts more effectively and more intelligently in
the service of New Zealand. It is no use looking elsewhere, to the universities and the
outside institutions, for that change. The initiative must come from within the walls of this
institution, and it will come only when the senior members of the House recognise and act
upon the need for it. At the moment we are all stalled in this effort by our preoccupation
with party political matters and day-to-day concerns.
I turn now to matters that reflect the tensions and strains of an institution in need of
reform. We shall see more evidence of strain and tension, as we have seen recently, unless
positive initiatives for reform are made. I refer to the latest example of intolerable pressure
and strain imposed upon this institution, and I hope to conduct this discussion with due
moderation as illustrative of the situation. I refer to what has been alleged by the member for
Auckland Central about the Prime Minister's Department. I should like to correct the
record. The member for Auckland Central has said that that department is partisan, and that
its members are selected for their allegiance to the National Party. He has said that their


## p. 2116 (#572) ###########################################

2116
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
activities involve an American-type civil service, where civil servants are chosen because of
their loyalty to a party and not to the country. He has said that the department is a disaster
and that its impartiality is questionable. He has said it is a propaganda department and he
believes it should be abolished. These allegations are extravagant and spectacular.
I should like to turn to the facts. I have carefully researched the structure of the
department and its history, because I am concerned about and interested in the constitu-
tional balances that exist within our parliamentary democracy. I have been more interested
in that department than any other member for a long time. I fully share the concerns of
people at what they see as changing constitutional balances. But I cannot support unfair and
unwarranted attacks upon people. We may criticise institutions and policies and demand that
they be changed. But I feel that, when we launch attacks based on incorrect facts on people
who are in no position to answer, the public mind is so affected that it is persuaded that there
is either some basic dishonesty or some falsity of purpose to be attributed to the department.
The record needs to be corrected. Of a staff of 78, about 60 were in that department during
the term of the previous Government. They served the previous Prime Minister, and I have
no doubt they would be prepared to serve a future Prime Minister.
Hon. W. W. Freer: The Acting Prime Minister has said that is wrong.
Mr MINOGUE: In the House today, the Acting Prime Minister confirmed that most of
the people in the department were not political appointments, and he confirmed the integrity
of those people. That integrity has been taken away by the attacks made so unjustifiably
upon them by the member for Auckland Central. The Prime Minister's office staff, his
secretaries, and his clerks are the same employees who served the previous Prime Minister.
The situation of the press officer is the same for all practical purposes, but the press officers
now serve a number of Ministers. That can be compared with the situation where Ministers
or departments have had their own individual press officers-there is nothing new in that.
The previous Government had an equal number. Mr Hohepa was appointed to the Maori
Affairs Department, and a press secretary accompanied Hon. Hugh Watt on many of his
trips around the country, noticeably with the National Roads Board. To suggest that there is
something new and sinister in the appointment of press or other advisory officers is a
misrepresentation of what has been done for many years.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: We didn't have the "stink tank".
Mr MINOGUE: I shall come to that. I am surprised that the member for Timaru, who is
usually so restrained and so fair, seems intent on introducing elements of vulgarity into the
debate. Mere verbal sounds that are made to camouflage common sense and argument are
objectionable, particularly in the context of this discussion. In most of the vital areas the staff
is little different from what it was under the previous Prime Minister. Something different is
the advisory group, which some call the "think tank". I remind the people concerned that
there is nothing new in that. The employees are appointed because of their particular
expertise, and their political allegiance is not known. Similar appointments were made from
other departments under the late Mr Kirk and the previous Prime Minister. The Leader of
the Opposition would be the first to acknowledge that such people are necessary in a modern
Prime Minister's department. To test the wind on this, I invite the Leader of the Opposition
to say whether he would disband the department or do away with the advisory group. The
Galvin appointment was made necessary because the Prime Minister's Office was split from
the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Mr Kirk: Galvin is a stooge.
Mr MINOGUE: The slander is being repeated. Let me tell the House that the Galvin
appointment was approved by an augmented State Services Commission. The member for
Sydenham can repeat the slander if he likes, but it is becoming a little ad nauseam. To say
that this man is a stooge is to slander also the augmented State Services Commission-that
is, the State Services Commission plus additional senior civil servants-that authorised his
appointment. The member for Sydenham is slandering that tribunal in saying what he has
said. If he had any sense of responsibility whatever, he would realise that and withdraw his
comment entirely. No one deplores more than I do the fact that a department that has served
previous Prime Ministers well has been slandered in the way it has. It is time to record the
facts. [Interruption.]
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order!
Mr MINOGUE: The member for Sydenham launches a barrage of verbal sound and
thinks he is making the impact of a howitzer on the House. In fact, he sounds like an
emasculated rooster crowing at an empty dawn. To return to the point of the 78 people in
the Prime Minsiter's Department, 3 have a known political allegiance; yet the department


## p. 2117 (#573) ###########################################

11 August
2117
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
has been damned out of hand by members opposite as being worthy only of destruction. I
challenge the Leader of the Opposition to say in the House that he would abolish that
department or any section of it. I challenge him to say that that same department did not
serve him well. I challenge him, in the public interest, to refute the scurrilous and libellous
attacks on innocent people that have been made by his colleagues in this House.
Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel): I endorse the remarks of the member for Hamilton
West, particularly those about the unjustified attack on the Prime Minister's Department.
For too long, certain Opposition members have been conducting a vindictive campaign
against the Prime Minister, and, lately, against his department. It is noticeable that this is
done when the Prime Minister is not here. I reckon that is the attitude of one who
continually speaks below road level. I leave it at that.
I really enjoyed the speech made by the member for Onehunga the other night; I think
we all did. He faces a different problem from that of his fellow members, and I hope that his
nomination will go forward in a truly democratic manner and not come from behind iron
walls somewhere in Wellington, as have the announcements of two candidates about whom
the electors have had no say. I wonder how many financial members of the Labour Party are
in the Auckland Central electorate, and how many are in Papatoetoe. With fewer than
50 000 members in the whole wide Labour Party, there cannot be very many who have a say
in Auckland Central or Papatoetoe.
I listened with interest to the member for West Coast tonight. With other members, I
have always enjoyed his rhetoric and his descriptive phrasing. It is a pity that this is the
second to last time he will take part in a Budget debate. His only regret must be that he did
not get the full support of the Labour Government for development on the West Coast.
Hon. W. W. Freer: You must be joking.
Mr SCHULTZ: What did the member for Mt. Albert do? How much did he have to
borrow out of kitty to prop up Matai Industries? For many years, almost all the progress on
the West Coast has taken place under a National Government, whether it be in the form of
public buildings, bridging, or roading. The West Coast has a tar-sealed main highway from
one end to the other, almost all of it done under a National Government.
Mr Kirk: How many coal mines are there?
Mr SCHULTZ: Here we have the member for Sydenham chipping in again. The other
night I heard him make something like 85 interjections during a member's speech. If he
thinks that proves he is a good member, he has another think coming. He asked about coal
mining on the West Coast. All right, we will talk about it. I wonder if he can tell us what
happened at Reefton when the Labour Government called for tenders for the stripping of
the overburden on the Island Block. Two tenders were received, one for $147,000 that was
turned down, and another for $216,000 from someone who I believe was friendly towards the
Labour Government. He was the successful tenderer.
Mr Kirk: Prove it.
Mr SCHULTZ: I can go back to Hansard and provide the member with all the questions
and answers. Many curious complaints have been made during this debate. Both the Leader
of the Opposition and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition had complaints about taxation,
housing, immigration, and road transport. We even had one member with a problem about
baby rash, but I shall not go into that. The Leader of the Opposition talked for nearly an
hour, and not even the member for Sydenham had any interjections because he, like a
number of others, I believe, had gone to sleep.
Mr Kirk: That's not true.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order!
Mr SCHULTZ: The Leader of the Opposition berated the Government about its
taxation policies, although the National Government inherited from Labour a record debt of
over $1,000 million and a record overseas borrowing total of more than $2,000 million. In the
past 18 months the National Government has made many reductions in those amounts. In
1972 the effective tax rate, after allowing for a rebate on the maximum income, was of the
order of 45c in the dollar. In its first year the Labour Government took away the rebate.
Then it started to cut back allowances. It allowed only $50 for books and incidentals that
could be claimed by school teachers and other professional people. Then the Labour
Government increased minimum taxation.
Members opposite now say they would restructure the taxation system. In Government
they restructured it all right; they restructured it upwards. In the 1973 Budget, people who
had an income that did not exceed $650 were taxed at the rate of 7.85c in the dollar. People
over the maximum were taxed at the rate of 50 percent, or 50c in the dollar. In election


## p. 2118 (#574) ###########################################

2118
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
year-and it must have been getting desperate by then-the Labour Government increased
the tax of 7.85c in the dollar to 20c in the dollar on incomes under $2,000. People on limited
incomes and people with part-time jobs found their tax rate going up under the Labour
Government. Rebates and concessions were also reduced, and the maximum tax rate was
increased from 50c to 60c. The Labour Party talks about restructuring the tax system. The
only restructuring we have ever had under a Labour Government has been upwards and
onwards.
Mr Kirk: Tell us about the 15 percent interest rates.
Mr SCHULTZ: The member asks me to talk about interest rates. It would probably be
better, for his benefit, to consider the family tax concessions. Originally, 90 000 people were
eligible for the family rebate. A further 70 000 were eligible under the 1976 Budget, and
another 58 000 have become eligible under this Budget, which means that 218 000 families
have received tax relief under this Budget this year. Twenty-five percent of the population
have received a tax concession in this Budget. I challenge any Labour member to say
whether, if Labour became the Government, it would increase the tax relief or leave it as it
is.
There have also been comments about the national superannuation scheme. One night
on Radio Windy the Deputy Leader of the Opposition said that a Labour Government
would reintroduce the means test for superannuation. Will he deny that, or does he prefer to
say that Labour would abolish the scheme altogether? Would any other Labour member say
that the means test will not be reintroduced?
Hon. W. W. Freer: Would the member tell us how he will fund the scheme in 5 years
from now?
Mr SCHULTZ: Will the member for Mt. Albert deny that Labour would reintroduce
the means test? Labour members are just playing politics. The Labour Government's
scheme had been introduced and put into operation when the National Government took
office.
Dr Shearer: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. Since the member for Coromandel
started speaking there has been an incessant and infantile babble from the member for
Sydenham. I wonder if it is possible that he be asked to desist a little?
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: There have been rather too many interjections from one
member. Perhaps he will take the hint, which I have given him twice by calling for order,
that we could have fewer interjections from him.
Mr SCHULTZ: Thank you, Mr Deputy Speaker. It does not worry me—it is the
member's problem.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! When we have dealt with a point of order, that is the
end of it. We have no further reference to it.
Mr SCHULTZ: My apologies, Mr Deputy Speaker. I was talking about the Labour
Party's superannuation scheme. It is curious that whenever the Labour Party produces a
scheme there is always some big trick at the back of it-some form of tax grab. The last
report of the New Zealand Superannuation Corporation before it was wound up gives the
story of the last few months' operation of the scheme. The Labour Government said that it
would put the money it collected into housing and local government. The scheme started out
with a very low rate of tax, but before long the tax would have amounted to 4 percent from
every wage earner and 4 percent from every employer, so that 8 percent would have had to
go on to the cost of living in one way or another.
Of the funds collected, $42 million was spent in the following way. The Government
spent $14.5 million on Government and local authority stock; more than half that amount
went on Government stock, so the Government was lending the taxation money back to
itself. At that stage the Labour Government was getting desperate. Then it spent $13.7
million on debentures in various companies and industrial enterprises. It spent $5 million on
buying commercial property. All that housing got was $3.8 million, and then the Govern-
ment bought commercial mortgages for $2.7 million and shares in various companies for $3.1
million. Instead of providing a scheme that would benefit the nation, the Government was
providing a scheme that would take over the control of the nation; that is why the National
Government wound it up.
We have had some curious statements on transport from Opposition members. The
member for Auckland Central tried to compare the value of a goods train to that of road
transport. He calculated that one goods train was equal to 50 trucks and 50 drivers. That
kind of simple mathematics might sound all right, but he forgot all the transport required to
take the goods to the railway trucks, and he forgot the drivers who were needed to distribute


## p. 2119 (#575) ###########################################

11 August
2119
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
the goods at the other end. He also forgot the servicing of the railway line, and he
overlooked the distances involved in the new road transport policy. Under the new policy,
road transport can deliver goods at a better rate, on a better timetable, and at a cheaper cost
than can the railways.
The new transport regulations, which increase the limit for road competition against rail
from 40 miles to 93 miles, will be of tremendous benefit in my electorate and in many other
parts of New Zealand. In recent years the people in my electorate have had to go continually
to the Transport Licensing Authority for special licences, route licences, and so on. At times
we have had the ridiculous situation of farmers being able to take their stock to the freezing
works and being allowed a payload of no more than 1 tons on the return trip. I am sure that
the extended limit will mean a better and more economical service. I realise it has taken
some time to sort out the details.
I take this opportunity to commend the Minister of Transport for the tremendous work
that he and his officers have done, and I am sure they will have the support of many people,
particularly in the rural districts. With the growth of New Zealand at present, there is also
the question of whether the rail services could handle all the trade available. I know that in
my area the rail service cannot handle all the trade available, or it would be doing so. A car
factory in Thames is turning out about 50 vehicles a day, but the railways can handle neither
the parts coming in nor the deliveries going out; this is a tremendous opportunity for long
haulage. Road transport, which has taken over the load, will continue to grow, and this will
be of tremendous benefit.
I should like to spend a little time in considering the fishing industry. With the new 200-
mile economic zone, I am certain we will see the fishing industry develop so that before
many years it will be at least equal to the dairy industry. That might seem a rather rash
forecast, but when one sees the way the industry is growing, I believe that this can be
achieved. I am sorry that the member for Eastern Maori, who spoke about fishing the other
day, had not taken the trouble to read the Budget. He obviously had not read it, or he would
have seen the details included in the Budget. The fishing industry received as much in the
way of ideas and assistance as any other part of our economy. It is worth mentioning that in
the 9 months of this year 20 500 tonnes of fish, valued at $37,000, have been exported; in
1975, 14 400 tonnes, valued at $25,000, were exported, so an increase of about 57 percent has
been recorded in just over a year. The main markets have been the United States, Japan,
and Australia, and in each case there has been a substantial increase in the value of fish
exports when compared to that of 1975.
The most important aspect of the fishing industry is not the achievements of the past
years, but what appears to be developing in the immediate future. I read in the Dominion of
9 August that nine countries are now interested in coming to New Zealand to take part in
combined operations, and in applying for special rights for fishing off the New Zealand
coast. This means that we could reach agreements for more space than is actually available.
One of the features of the Budget and the recently introduced legislation is that the 200-mile
off-shore zone will be the fourth largest in the world.
There will also be other benefits, and I should like to mention the other assistance given
to the fishing industry. Not only are there so many forms of financial assistance, but many of
these have not been envisaged in the past. The Minister is to be commended for the time, the
thought, and the preparation he has put into it. First, there will be loans for fishing vessels,
gear, and equipment. Suspensory loans of up to 40 percent of the cost of construction will be
made available through the Rural Bank, and loans of up to 80 percent will be provided for
the cost of a vessel. Legislation designed to control fishing activity in certain fisheries has
also been enacted. Interest rates are at Rural Bank rates. We have fishing vessel ownership
savings schemes in the same way as we have ownership savings schemes for farming and
housing. Details of a training scheme were announced recently.
We also have a fund for development, and there is no doubt that the fishing industry has
the potential to become a significant earner of export income. To assist the industry to
realise its potential, and to promote research into new fisheries or alternative techniques, a
development fund grant will be established, and an initial sum of $200,000 has been provided
in this financial year. There is also a taxation incentive for the fishing industry. Finally, the
Government grant to the Fishing Industry Board for 1977-78 has been provided on the basis
of $1 for every $2 received from fishermen's levies. In 1979 this will be increased to $1 for $1,
and will be a further incentive for development in what will become one of the major export
industries.
Not much thought has been given to other opportunities in the 200-mile economic zone


## p. 2120 (#576) ###########################################

2120
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
as yet. As I said, New Zealand's area will be the fourth largest in the world, and there will be
many other benefits besides the fishing. I recently read a Canadian book called "The Last
Frontier", dealing with the value of the ocean, in which the scientists say that every cubic
kilometre is worth about $1 billion, or that for every cubic mile of sea water the value in
recoverable minerals is $5 billion. Those estimates were made some 4 years ago, and no
doubt the values now would be considerably higher. Nevertheless, apart from the fishing, we
have here an opportunity that could change our whole economy. I have no doubt that more
thought will be given to this in the future.
I want to deal with forestry, which was also mentioned in the Budget. As forestry
investment is spread over two decades or more, the Budget stated that it was necessary to
review the incentives available. Since 1970, the limit on qualifying expenditure has been $600
a hectare with a grant of 50 percent. In addition, an annual expenditure limit of $200,000 has
applied. These limits are to be increased to $900 a hectare and $300,000 respectively. As the
member for West Coast said, forestry management has changed significantly. During recent
visits to West Coast forests, it has been interesting to see that new techniques have
considerably improved conservation. The techniques being used by the Forest Service and
the timber milling industry will ensure that the indigenous timbers on the West Coast will last
much longer. At least, with the conservation programme now under way, it should be
possible to maintain those industries at the present level until regeneration or the planting of
exotics takes over. It was also interesting to note that the forestry encouragement loans are
to be continued, which is very important in a country that has to diversify its exports. I only
wish we had had such improvements when the Labour Government was in office, but that
was not to be.
The Budget will provide many benefits to the majority of New Zealanders. The criticism
from Opposition members has been unwarranted, and has been made because they have not
read the Budget, or do not understand it, or do not want to understand it. I believe they are
unable to grasp the features of the Budget because they have had so many problems of their
own to sort out. The member for Roskill is reading his paper. He has had so many problems
as president of the Labour Party that he has not had time to look at the Budget. I commend
the Minister and his associates for the way the Budget was drawn up. It makes no big
promises, but provides for progress, which, after all, is what really counts.
Mr COURTNEY (Nelson): I am not sure that it is a privilege to follow the member for
Coromandel. However. I was pleased he did mention fishing, as other Government
members have failed to do so. [Interruption.] The member for Lyttelton said she would talk
about fishing, but did not do so; she only skirted around it. The member for Rangiora
floundered around for a while and, like the member for Coromandel, he quickly read out
those parts of the Budget that deal with fishing. I was concerned to hear the member for
Coromandel say that very little thought had been given to the 200-mile economic zone. That
worried me, because I have suspected that for some time, and now it has been confirmed.
The member said that more thought had to be given to this newly established 200-mile
economic zone. Government members have avoided talking about the Budget. The member
for Hamilton West talked about everything but the Budget, which has turned out to be
another National disaster.
During the past 20 months our nation and the people have suffered from the disastrous
retrenchment policies of the irrational National Government. In the 1975 general election
campaign National Party members touted around the country that a National Government
would knock inflation for six and would also perform some sort of economic miracle.
However, because of the Government's actions, the country is now faced with economic
disaster. Where are those dynamic and positive policies to tackle the very serious problems
confronting our country today? I can find no trace of them in the Budget, which has been
given all sorts of names, including the Budget of bits and pieces, and the itsy-bitsy Budget.
The Minister of Finance himself has given it many titles, but the best one he gave it was the
status quo Budget. That describes it best of all, because it is the sort of Budget we have come
to expect from this right-wing, conservative National Government, which has shown that it
relies on the precedents of the past rather than on new exciting plans and policies for the
future.
Whatever one calls the Budget, it does not come to grips with the basic problems of
today. The Leader of the Queen's loyal Opposition and alternative Government brought
that into focus in his address the other day. The Budget does not tackle such problems as the
highest ever inflation, the highest ever price increases, the highest ever borrowing in the
history of the country-despite what members opposite might say to try to confuse the


## p. 2121 (#577) ###########################################

11 August
2121
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
people-the highest ever emigration difficulties, the highest ever interest rates, the highest
ever taxation take, and the highest ever number of man-hours lost through industrial unrest.
These are the main economic problems facing the country today. I would have expected the
Budget to deal with these very important issues, but instead it dodges them. To my way of
thinking, that is an admission by the Minister of Finance of his failure or inability to manage
the economy.
Table 13 on page 57 of the Budget shows that in 1973-74 the third Labour Government
reduced the overseas debt by $188 million, while overseas earnings were high. In 1977, the
National Government increased the overseas debt by $363 million, while overseas earnings
were at a record level. I find that fact very frightening indeed. I find many other aspects of
this blue Budget frightening. The third Labour Government also reduced overseas indebted-
ness in the private sector in 1973-74. The National Government increased private sector
indebtedness in 1976-77. The facts are clear. The Government can rubbish them all it likes,
but they cannot be denied. This Muldoon economic muddle has placed the country in a very
serious position. Far from being an economic wizard, the Minister of Finance would have
trouble in managing penny-in-the-slot machine, let alone the Government. I would not
entrust one of my businesses to his care. The Minister of Finance is causing businessmen
enough headaches—
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: Arrogant socialist.
Mr COURTNEY: It takes one to recognise one. I believe that people with restricted
training, such as accountants, should not hold top management positions. Although some
may have a flair for management and are very fortunate, I think that one of the troubles in
the world today, and in New Zealand in particular, is that too many top administrators are
not trained in management, but get to the top through one very narrow channel. I feel that
their training is too restricted to be effective.
I find many aspects of the Budget objectionable. The increase in interest rates is
particularly objectionable to me. The increase of $3 a week in mortgage repayments on a
house, just to satisfy the moneylending sector, shows me where the Government's real
interests lie. It is typical of the irrational attitude of the Government that it gave a 25 percent
rates rebate to a home occupier, and in the same breath it increased the repayment burden
on the same ratepayer. It is absolutely crazy to give further assistance to primary producers,
and then to increase the interest rates on Rural Bank loans. It just does not make sense.
Surely the Minister of Finance realises that every dollar required in extra interest payments
has to be given a real value by the efforts of farmers or of workers, or else the effect is to fuel
inflation still further.
Already under this Government we are suffering record inflation and stagnation, which
in my calculation equals "stagflation". That is putting it politely. I have heard others around
the country putting it in much more colourful language. Not only is economic activity
stagnating, but under this Government it is actually declining. I am sorry to say that the
standard of living of our people is steadily falling; investment in industry is falling;
investment in retailing is falling; investment in farming is falling; and production is faltering.
The prime responsibility for inflation rests with the Government. The increase in the
consumer price index for the June quarter was an all-time record of 4.8 percent. Will
members opposite never learn that they cannot beat rising prices by pushing them up, as this
Government has done time and time again? They can laugh, but they do not feel it as
working families do. The most recent increases have been in electricity charges, postal letter
rates, telephone rentals, toll rates, and telegram rates. Food subsidies have been cut, and
motor registration fees have risen. On and on it goes. One-fifth of the increase in the last
June quarter was due directly to two events-electricity price increases, and petrol price
rises. Those increases will cause a flow-on effect, and further price rises in a wide variety of
goods can be expected as a consequence. So, far from combating inflation, the Government
is causing it. The increase in food prices, other than for meat, fish, poultry, fruit, and
vegetables, accounted for one-eighth of the increase in the June quarter. That is an area
where the Government could and should help by bringing in controls.
Hon. L. W. Gandar: How?
Mr COURTNEY: "How?" they ask. They are in Government, and that is their only cry
when somebody makes a constructive criticism. They should set to and carry it out, and the
Minister of Education can start in his portfolio right now. So far, the rate of inflation under
this Government has averaged 3.7 percent per quarter, and, at that rate, what cost a dollar in
1975 will cost $1.55 by the end of 1978. Because of inflation, an average couple with two
children under 5 will require an increase of $10.72, or 9.1 percent, in gross wages to make up


## p. 2122 (#578) ###########################################

2122
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
for the record 4.8 percent rise in the consumer price index for the last quarter. If we
compound that rate of 4.8 percent, it represents a staggering 20.6 percent on a yearly basis. I
note that the Government compounded the increase for the March quarter when it was
announced at 2.6 percent, but it is not too keen to compound the latest June quarter increase
of 4.8 percent.
The National Party's glossy negative-type manifesto, the one it has now disowned,
states: "We believe continued double-figure inflation will destroy the basis of the New
Zealand economy and cause untold misery. The fight against increases in the cost of living is
the most important single issue in economic management." That was stated in the National
Party's 1975 manifesto. If the Government had only carried out its policy as stated at that
time it would have done something worth while. I have no doubt that if inflation is not
controlled it will destroy us all, and therefore I agree with that part of the National Party's
1975 glossy, but now disowned, manifesto. Let me now take a few moments to consider what
could happen if inflation is not brought under control. If it continues at the rate of, say, 10
percent for the next 40 years, it will bring the price of a daily newspaper to $3.60, a bottle of
beer to more than $18, a pair of shoes to $1,350, a loaf of bread to $9.90, and an average
house to $1.35 million. That is an indication of what could happen if the Government takes
no steps to bring inflation under control.
However, I believe the National Government supports inflation. One has only to
consider those who support the National Party financially to realise that the same people
profit by inflation. In one considers those who exert political pressure on the National Party,
one realises that those same people profit by inflation. I think of the speculators, who are
friends of the National Party. The property investors are also friends of the National Party.
The same comment applies to big business men, and capital gains farmers. All are friends of
the National Party. However, those who lose as a consequence of ever-increasing inflation
are the pensioners, the wage and salary earners, the small savers, and the new farmers-in
other words, the ordinary New Zealanders. In the Budget, the Government has shown little
or no concern at all for them, but they are the people who suffer as a result of inflation under
the National Government.
The Budget also showed that the taxation take is now at an all-time record. Although
people throughout the country have been calling for a reduction in the rates of taxation, the
Budget provides for an additional tax take of $740 million, representing an average of $900
per family. The Budget provided a little tax relief, but only for those with children under 10
years, and even then it will not compensate those families for what they have lost through
inflation in the past year. The rebate offered will not come into effect until the end of the
year, but those people who are eligible for it need it right now. It is also specifically stated in
the Budget by its author, the Prime Minister, that mothers of children over the age of 10
must supplement the family income by working. Those families need help, too, but the
Budget provides no help at all for families with children over the age of 10. Indeed, that is
the time when they incur the greatest expenditure on food, clothing, and general expenses.
However, the Government has not considered them at all, they have missed out in the
Budget. The widows and widowers with children over 10 are to receive no additional help,
and they too are people for whom further assistance would be well and truly justified.
The Budget does nothing to control spiralling interest rates on house loans. Since 1975
they have risen on average by the staggering amount of 25 percent. They are now higher than
ever before in New Zealand's history. For every one house mortgage with an interest rate of
12 percent in 1975, there are now three; the number of house loans at a reasonable rate of
interest-say 6 percent-has fallen by a massive 400 percent. Housing is a basic human right,
but the cost of paying off a house has doubled under this Government, and it is still rising.
The Budget makes no provision for housing those on modest incomes. It is clear that the
Government has no feeling at all for such people, and it has taken no action to assist single-
income households. However, the moneylenders are rewarded in the Budget; they are given
a tax rebate of up to $500 a year. I emphasise that the homeless are being taxed to subsidise
the moneylenders. The Budget contains no provisions that will assist in solving the biggest
crisis the building industry has suffered in years. In the past 12 months, 6000 skilled
tradesmen have left New Zealand. As a result, the number of those in the building industry
has decreased by a massive 30 percent.
The Budget should have concentrated much of its attention on housing; it should have
provided more finance for housing, given significant tax relief, and real assistance to export
industries. More money should have been provided for education and health. The Govern-
ment has not spent money in these essential areas, because it needs every cent to fund its


## p. 2123 (#579) ###########################################

11 August
2123
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
national superannuation scheme. I think the people are waking up to the fact that this is a
super tax type of Budget. The national superannuation scheme will cost-and the Acting
Prime Minister can play with figures all he likes-a full $930 million this year. Taxpayers
have already contributed an extra $330 million in the last financial year for what I consider
the biggest election bribe of all time. The people still do not know what the full cost will be,
because we have yet to be told.
My colleagues and I believe that our elderly citizens are entitled to a good standard of
living, but it is essential that the cost of any superannuation scheme is not an extra burden on
taxpayers, particularly those with young families to support. We on this side of the House
cannot condone that. The third Labour Government's superannuation scheme, abolished by
this National Government, cared for senior citizens, but it was a scheme the country could
afford, and it made sure that some funds went back into the community. The member for
Whangarei is trying to interject. He will have a chance to speak some other time, and he
should give me the chance to tell the people what is happening and what are my concerns.
The Labour Government's New Zealand superannuation scheme was an excellent compul-
sory form of saving at a time when people were not saving, and it is a shame that it has been
dropped.
I move on now to page 16 of the Budget, the fishing section.
Mr Quigley: Fish and chips?
Mr COURTNEY: No, not fish and chips, the fishing section is not to be treated lightly.
As the member for Coromandel said, it is an important and vital part of New Zealand's
expansion programme. This section has many more words than were given to fishing in the
1976 Budget, but, when one reads between the lines, one finds that it consists mostly of mere
words and that the small fishermen, who are the backbone of the industry, will not receive
any great benefit. I shall go through the section point by point. The Minister of Fisheries is
overseas and, as the Opposition spokesman for the fishing industry, in which I have a great
interest, it falls on me to explain to the industry, the House, and the people what provision is
made in the Budget.
Let us look first at the importation of fishing boats. The Opposition agrees that, at this
stage in the development of our off-shore fishing industry, large vessels should be allowed
into the country duty free. However, the conditions to be imposed disturb members on this
side of the House, as these conditions have spoilt the scheme. The location to be fished, the
fish species which can be taken, and the disposal of vessels are all tight provisions. Who will
decide what vessels are to fish where, and who will ensure that the species and locations
recommended by some still unspecified bureaucrat will be economically viable, and indeed
safe, for a particular vessel or fisherman to fish? I predict that very few people will take up
this offer because of the extreme conditions attached to the assistance.
The Minister of Fisheries should be here to answer questions; instead he takes off
overseas. He has been a bit slow off the mark in doing that. The minute he became Minister
of Fisheries he should have gone overseas to get a global view of the fishing industry,
something this Government so badly needs. Instead, he takes off at a time when he is needed
here. When the Government finally makes some small gesture to the industry he is not here,
and that is not satisfactory.
In the section dealing with importing fishing vessels, I see that the duty-free period has
been extended to March 1979, another 2 years—to allow for the long-term planning of the
industry, so the member for Rangiora says. I wonder how much difference those 2 years will
make. I do not believe that that extension, with the extreme conditions that are attached to
it, will significantly increase our fishing potential. The Government has given the fishing
industry nothing at all; it is just flying a kite. The duty on these vessels is about 53 percent.
The Fenestre was purchased by a company in my electorate for $5 million, but had the duty
been levied that company would have paid $10 million for it. Such a duty is not in our
interests when we are in competition with foreign fishing countries. How can we compete if
we have to pay twice the price for our vessels?
Does the section dealing with species of fish mean that those who fish for snapper will
not qualify? If that is so, most of those who fish in the Auckland region will not qualify under
this scheme. It is snapper which holds the Auckland industry together, and the people should
be allowed to catch whatever comes into their nets. They will have to make every post a
winning post because of high interest payments and high capital repayments; they will need
every fish they can possibly catch. I do not know whether this condition will be attractive to
them; I think it will be a retarding factor.
Now let us consider the provision for suspensory loans of up to 40 percent of the


## p. 2124 (#580) ###########################################

2124
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
approved cost of the construction of certain fishing vessels built in New Zealand. Members
on this side approve of that concept, but question whether the incentive is adequate. It has
some regional development potential, and we approve of the concept for that reason as well
as others. A political cynic might think that this is a good way for the Government to hold
Whangarei at the next election, but we on this side do not think that, because we know that
the people of Whangarei have been fooled by this Government so many times that they will
not be fooled again. The Opposition supports regional development-it always has. It
supports local industry, and always has. It supports our indigenous boat-building industry;
that is why we approve of granting suspensory loans of up to 40 percent for the construction
of certain vessels built in New Zealand. Our indigenous boat-building industry definitely
needs promoting.
If our fishing industry, particularly the off-shore industry, is to expand, these vessels will
need to be built in a reasonable time. The question must be asked, because people in the
industry want to know, how long will it be before the first vessel can be completed under this
scheme? What will be the time for building further vessels under the scheme? Will the local
industry be competitive, or will this be just a way of pushing up prices? Already, people in
the fishing industry are saying that the incentives are not sufficient to promote the
construction of large vessels in New Zealand. A 100 ft fishing boat can cost $1.2 million if
built in New Zealand, and delivery can take 15 months. The same vessel can be built in
South Korea for $900,000 and take between 7 months and 9 months to build. Fishing is a
business, and the business cannot be expected to stand the difference of about $100,000 in
price. In other words, the suspensory loan provision is quite insufficient, and will not assist
the New Zealand fishing industry, the fishermen, or the boat-building industry to be
competitive.
The special fishing boat loans of up to 80 percent of the investment value is a good idea
which will enable men to come into the industry, but in this, as in other cases, the interest
rates are too high and will be a disincentive. I know they are considerably less than the
private sector is paying, but repayments of 7.5 percent to 8.5 percent are very high on a loan
of 80 percent. I have been advocating the introduction of a fishing boat savings scheme for
some time, and there is no excuse for the Government to delay its introduction. Such a
scheme has been working very successfully in the farming sector, and this scheme could have
been implemented in the fishing sector a lot sooner.
The training incentive scheme is another that I have been advocating for some time, but
the Government will still have to do a lot more in this important field. In my electorate, the
largest proportion of the cost of training is met by the local fishing industry. That must be
rectified, and I think some further Government assistance is essential. The Development
Grant Fund sounds like an expensive scheme, and a joint industry-Government committee is
to be set up to administer this. Committees cost a lot of money, and, if this Development
Grant Fund is to be established to encourage innovation and expansion within the industry, I
do not believe for one moment that $200,000 will go very far. It is certainly a far cry from the
$100 million that the Minister of Fisheries said the industry needed over the next 3 years.
The Opposition is very pleased to see the increase in the grant to the Fishing Industry Board.
I believe that the grant should not be tied to the fishermen's levy, but should be a set sum
that is allocated each year. I should also like to know the maximum level for this new
subsidy.
The importance of the fish-processing industry has been underestimated in the Budget,
and there is nothing in the Budget for established fishermen. No new incentives are given for
production or diversification, and no mention is made of any incentive for research into new
markets for our fish and fish products. This section of the Budget shows a piecemeal
approach to the fishing industry, and shows yet again that the Government does not have a
co-ordinated, overall policy for the fishing industry. In my view, such a policy should cover
all aspects of the industry, from research to marketing, from the vessels to the fishermen
themselves. The fishing industry should receive similar incentives for expansion to those
received by agriculture over the years. In not too many years, our fish exports will equal our
beef exports, and in all seriousness I call upon the Government to stop floundering around
and put some sole into the further expansion of this important industry.
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East): It is not much of a pleasure to follow the member for
Nelson. He was wrong about national superannuation, inflation, borrowing, and the fishing
industry. He seemed to be not only floundering, but also groping. In fact, he is a little like a
groper himself-all mouth and no gut. He was also wrong about the statement "knocking
inflation for a six" because, as the country knows, that was a cricketing term used by the late


## p. 2125 (#581) ###########################################

11 August
2125
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement.
Mr Kirk, yet the member for Nelson attributed it to this Government. Some Opposition
speakers in this debate warrant comment, but I am afraid this one does not. Before I move
on to consider an area that I believe has been very poorly dealt with in the Budget-concern
for those with disabilities, and the unfortunate children living in institutions—I want to deal
with one or two comments made by previous speakers.
First, I offer some advice to the member for Western Maori. His speech was very
impressive, but fine oratory in the House will not make up for his absence from the marae
and from his constituents. I have with me a letter, which I think he should hear: "Because we
are dissatisfied with the representation we are getting from our local Maori MP, myself and
at least another 80 Maoris in the Hamilton East area applied for a transfer to a common
roll." The member for Western Maori should seriously consider that letter before he goes
too far with his comments. The letter continues, "Those that vote on the Maori roll are
denying themselves a proper representation in Parliament, because the Labour Party is
always in Opposition." That letter was written by a constituent who knows what he is talking
about.
Hon. Michael Connelly: It was written by Ian Shearer.
Dr SHEARER: If the member believes it was signed by me, he can look at the letter.
The Maori members have criticised the Government and said that it does not do anything.
Programme IV of the Department of Maori Affairs vote has been increased from $2,608,000
to $3,202,000. Programme VI, Maori land development and settlement, has been increased
by almost $2 million. Before they give too much hysterical criticism, the Maori members
should look at what has been provided in the Budget for the Maori people.
The late Will Rodgers said, "I never met a man I didn't like." When speaking about the
member for West Coast, we should acknowledge that he is a man whom no one dislikes. He
gave a delightful speech, but I must censure him slightly. He mentioned the Maruia
Declaration, but he did not mention No. 3, which is of significance to him. It states: "The
logging of virgin forests should be phased out by 1978. Westland is an exception. There the
regional economy still depends on some indigenous sawmilling, which must decline over a
longer period while alternative industries, including exotic forest industries, are urgently
developed." I am rather surprised that the member for West Coast had such mild criticism
for that declaration, as it affects his electorate, which he holds dear to his heart. I am sure the
people who signed the declaration looked at it and were aware of its contents. The member
mentioned the bugs and bees and everything that is in the trees. The Okarito area has 62
species of birds, and 50 species are found in the lagoon. Among those birds are the brown
creeper and three species of shag. There are many more bird species than that in the West
Coast, and that is why I and many other conservationists throughout the country have fought
so very hard to retain that part of the West Coast in its present state.
The member for Auckland Central has received a fair amount of criticism, but I do not
intend to continue that line of criticism. He compared the advantages of truck and rail
transport, and said that three railway staff with a train could replace 50 trucks with drivers.
To me, that appears to justify unemployment. If Bill Andersen, the Northern Drivers
Union, and the Socialist Unity Party heard about the philosophy of putting 47 men out of
work, the logic, or lack of logic, from the member for Auckland Central would horrify them.
I shall not comment further on that.
The member for Wanganui spoke about the interrogation of the elderly. If the member
is concerned about the actions of social welfare officers, he should have passed that
information on to facilitate rapid action. He spoke about the Labour superannuation
scheme, as have other members. They emphasised the fact that the money would have been
available for housing, local body finance, and industrial development, but to me and to many
others it sounded very much like that old pattern of nationalisation. The member was quite
pleased to say that in 3 years the Labour Government had borrowed a certain amount, but
he omitted to say that in its first year-that heady year of the Labour Government—there
was $1,000 million of overseas credit in the bank. Labour did not have to borrow during that
first year-it just went on a great spending spree. I am sure that many members, and many
who are out there listening, will remember a certain mosque that was bought somewhere
overseas-we do not know what for, but good New Zealand money was spent on it.
The member for Mangere came into the House with the reputation of being a defender
of the little people, a person with a strong social conscience. His speech disappointed me a
little, because he listed 18 points before he got to social concern. He went through transport,
local government, superannuation, taxes, overseas borrowing, shipping corporations, and
aircraft, to name only seven. He did not reach social concern until he go to his nineteenth


## p. 2126 (#582) ###########################################

2126
11 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
point. I was disappointed. The member came into the House with so much glory and so
much promise of being a defender of the little people. He is a member of a party that
supposedly defends the minority, and I was disappointed that he did so poorly in his support
of the minority.
Before my time is up tonight, I want to talk briefly about what the Budget has done for
the disabled and for those who are less fortunate than we are. No matter what Opposition
members say, no matter how much they scream from the benches opposite, there will always
be those in our community who cannot manage, who for a variety of reasons are unable to
get on and are regarded as the down-and-outs, the failures. Irrespective of what this
Government does, or what the Labour Government did or could do if ever it were returned
to power, there will always be those failures in society, those people who cannot survive and
for whom we must have a strong social conscience and a strong social concern. Utopia has
not yet arrived.
I recall meeting foster parents in Hamilton soon after the election, and I was more than
a little surprised to find that the rate of payment for board had not been increased since
December 1973. In June 1976 the National Government, which does have a social
conscience-despite all the trash one hears from the socialists opposite-increased board
payments by an impressive 47 percent. In the period from December 1973, when the
previous Government last adjusted these rates, to June 1976, this nation experienced a 37
percent increase in the cost of living, so that the Government's action last year more than
compensated for that increase. I am, therefore, delighted to see a firm commitment in the
Budget to increase these rates again. I understand that the clothing grants paid to foster
parents have already been increased from 1 August, and I know how welcome that increase
will be.
I note that the Budget also provides a mileage allowance for volunteer social workers,
payable from 1 August. This is an entirely new provision, and is worth 8.7c a kilometre to
those volunteers who help the Department of Social Welfare in its community activities. This
allowance is something that this Government, a caring Government, has brought in; it is
something that the previous Government had no concern for, and gave no consideration to.
Furthermore, from 1 October there will be increases in the rates of board paid to foster
parents in the weekly capitation grant for children's homes.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 2127 (#583) ###########################################

12 August
2127
Notice of Motion-Admissibility
FRIDAY, 12 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 9 a.m.
Prayers.
NOTICE OF MOTION-ADMISSIBILITY
Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth): I give notice that next sitting day I shall move,
That this House notes that the Labour member for Timaru has failed to answer the challenge
issued to him on Tuesday, 9 August to table copies of "Road Services documents and
accounts bearing a Transport Nelson letterhead", which he claims in the Taranaki Herald on
Friday, 5 August "have already been received by users of the bus service", and accordingly
that the claim be recognised as being no more than a figment of his imagination.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): A point of order, Mr Speaker. The notice of
motion given by the member for New Plymouth states that I failed to table a certain
document and respond to a challenge. I am unaware of any challenge issued by the member
for New Plymouth, or any other member in the House, to table any document. The member
should be called upon to table evidence to substantiate his notice of motion.
Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth): I do not believe that the point of order can be
sustained. If the member for Timaru had been in the House when I made my Budget speech
on Tuesday night he would have heard me, in the presence of many other Opposition
members, call upon him to table the documents mentioned in an article in the Taranaki
Herald of 5 August, which read: "Road Services documents and accounts bearing
a Transport Nelson letterhead have already been received by users of the bus service." I
challenged the member for Timaru to table those documents, but he has not done so. I have,
therefore, called on the House to recognise them as no more than a figment of his
imagination.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt): I have not seen the Taranaki Herald, or the documents, but I
know that such a document exists in an accountant's office. I have drawn that fact to the
attention of the member for New Plymouth, and I have also been questioned about this
matter by the Taranaki Herald. I do not know whether the Taranaki Herald has its facts
messed up, but it is certain that the member for Timaru has never indicated that he has any
such documents to table. He has not heard any challenge to table the documents in the
House. The notice of motion should be closely examined in that light.
Mr SPEAKER: The point of order was raised late, after other notices of motion. Points
of order should be raised at once, not some minutes later, but in spite of that I shall, as
requested, look at this matter. I do wish to draw the attention of the House to the fact that
looking into the correctness or otherwise of allegations included in notices of motion is a very
time-consuming matter that has recently grown to extraordinary dimensions. Some years ago
one might have been concerned with something of this sort once a month, but now it is
several times a day. I ask honourable members to bear that in mind when they are framing
the mass of so-called notices of motion.
Perhaps I should mention at this point that I have no authority to decide the length of
notices of motion, except the inherent authority of the Chair to prevent absurdities, but I
endeavour to eliminate the tendency to make speeches beginning with "That”, that might
take half the day. I do frown on notices of motion that exceed 150 words.
CARRIAGE OF GOODS BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Carriage of Goods Bill
be introduced. This Bill consolidates and reforms the law relating to the carriage of goods
within New Zealand. The basis of the Bill is a report of the Contracts and Commercial Law
Reform Committee, presented in 1968. In addition, the Transport Advisory Council
considered an early draft of the Bill and the useful contribution of that body is evident in the
Bill to be introduced today. The Carriage of Goods Bill has been long in preparation, as the
many groups who have expressed interest in its progress will know. In deference to those
groups I should make it clear that the time taken over the Bill does not reflect Government
lack of interest in it. Rather, it reveals the concern of successive Ministers of Justice that this
Bill really should do substantial justice between carriers and their customers. The area of law


## p. 2128 (#584) ###########################################

2128
12 August
Carriage of Goods Bill
is not without its complexities, and their resolution in a manner fair to both sides in a
carriage transaction has necessarily been time consuming. However, I believe that the Bill to
be introduced today succeeds in stating the law on the carriage of goods in New Zealand in a
manner that will be satisfactory both to consumers and to operators.
The law on the carriage of goods within New Zealand is at present found in four
statutes. They are the Carriers Act 1948, the Sea Carriage of Goods Act 1940, the
Government Railways Act 1949, and the Carriage by Air Act 1967. Other rules are found at
common law. One problem with this situation is that the liability of the carrier to the
customer depends on the mode of transport used. As one example of the anomalies that
exist, I refer on the one hand to a common carrier by land who is absolutely liable for the loss
of or damage to goods up to $40 per package or unit, but who can exclude all his liability by a
special contract. On the other hand, a domestic air carrier is liable for loss or damage up to
$240 in respect of the cargo of one consignor only if he did not take all necessary and possible
measures to avoid loss or damage. He may not contract out of his liability except in respect
of certain goods. As recommended by the Contracts and Commercial Law Reform Commit-
tee, the Bill replaces this confused situation by rules of liability that apply to all carriers,
whether by road, rail, water, or air.
The committee looked at the ground on which a carrier should be liable to a customer.
It saw the question as where the risk of loss or damage to goods should lie as between carrier
and customer. Its answer-and I quote from page 8 of the report-was: "We would prefer
that in a commercial transaction like the carriage of goods, the risk should lie where the
balance of convenience places it. Since the risk of loss or damage is readily insurable, the
question becomes one of which party should be expected to effect insurance." The
committee went on to recommend that up to a given money limit the risk should lie on the
carrier. That is, the carrier's liability should be absolute up to a certain limit, but should cut
out completely beyond it. Conversely, the customer should bear no risk up to the limit, but
should bear all the risk over it. The Bill implements the committee's recommendation. A
carrier is absolutely liable for loss of or damage to goods except where the loss or damage
results directly and without the carrier's fault from the fault of the consignor. The Bill also
spells out that the carrier is liable for delay-which is implicit in the report-except where
the delay results from dangerous weather conditions or an attempt to save life or property.
Consistent with an approach based on absolute liability, the Bill narrowly circumscribes
the circumstances in which contracting out is permitted. A carrier may exclude his obliga-
tions under the Bill only if it is just and reasonable for him to do so, having regard to the
special nature of the goods or the special nature of the route. The financial limit that should
be placed on a carrier's liability is of great interest both to customers and to operators. The
present limits vary from $40 per package or unit for a common carrier, including the
Railways, through $100 per package or unit for a coastal sea carrier, to $240 on the cargo of
one consignor for a domestic air carrier. The Contracts and Commercial Law Reform
Committee approaches the matter by asking, in respect of units, of what value it is
reasonable that the consignor should effect his own insurance rather than rely on the
carrier's liability. Realising that views were likely to differ on the answer, the committee
nevertheless felt able to recommend $1,000 per unit. That figure appears in the Bill. I expect
that transport operators and consumers might have opposing views on the suitability of that
sum, but I regard it as a reasonable starting point. The $1,000 limit applies whether the
carrier is sued in contract or tort. I should point out that the $1,000 was recommended by the
law reform committee 9 years ago, in 1968.
Standardisation and modernisation are also desirable in respect of the unit of goods on
which the liability is computed. The statutes dating from the 1940s used the terms "unit" and
"package", and the Carriage by Air Act of 1967 talks of the cargo of one consignor. None of
these terms is adequate to cope with modern developments in unitisation of goods. For
example, is a loaded container a unit, or is each individual package inside it a unit? Similar
questions arise about pallets. The Bill answers the questions in an exhaustive definition of
the term "unit", and also deals with the situation where the goods are repacked in transit.
Because the Bill provides common rules on liability for all carriers, it is able to provide a
uniform claim procedure when one consignment of goods is carried by several modes of
transport. The Bill recognises two systems by which carriers, including freight forwarders,
and their customers may arrange for the carriage of goods in stages. The carrier and the
customer may make a contract providing for the carrier to carry, or arrange for the carriage
of, the goods to their final destination. If the goods are lost, damaged, or delayed the
customer seeks his redress against the carrier with whom he contracted. This is a contract of


## p. 2129 (#585) ###########################################

12 August
2129
Carriage of Goods Bill
through carriage under the Bill. Alternatively, a customer may prefer to make individual
contracts with a series of carriers to get his goods to their final destination. If loss, damage,
or delay occurs, all carriers with whom the customer contracted are jointly and severally
liable to him. A carrier is not liable if he can prove the event did not occur while he was
responsible for the goods. This is a contract of successive carriage under the Bill.
The Bill completes its statement of uniform rules by providing rights for all carriers. At
present the rights of carriers against the owners of goods are found in statutes and in the
common law. The rights stated in the Bill include the right to sue for freight and to sell goods
held under a lien. I am convinced that this long-awaited measure effects desirable and
necessary reforms in the law governing the carriage of goods. I shall be asking the House to
refer the Bill to the Statutes Revision Committee.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): In his closing remarks the Minister of Justice said
that the Bill would be referred to the Statutes Revision Committee. I say immediately that
the Opposition welcomes that move. As members know, the report of the Contracts and
Commercial Law Reform Committee has been around for a long time, and work on this Bill
has been continuing for a number of years-from memory about 8 years. The Bill's
appearance is welcome. For many years it has been obvious to everyone involved in the
transport industry, operators and users alike, that the question of carrier's liability would
have to be updated, and this Bill moves to do that. As the Minister said, the maximum figure
mentioned in the Bill-$1,000 per unit-will not please everybody. That is fair comment, but
you have to start somewhere. A figure has to be nominated, and the select committee will
hear argument for and against the advantages and disadvantages, and no doubt the figure
could be amended or it may be confirmed. There is a wide range of amounts, from the $40
for road transport liability through to $240 for domestic air carriage, and there could well be
a strong argument for consistency.
The measure is a complicated one-a complex legal transport insurance matter, and for
that reason the Opposition does not propose to go into the measure to any great extent this
morning. To do so at this stage would be improper. Suffice it to say that the Opposition
welcomes the entry of a Bill of this nature, and also the fact that it is to go to a select
committee. It deals with a matter that has long required attention, and I hope that the
measure that emerges from the Statutes Revision Committee will help to overcome a
difficult problem in a wide-ranging and complex area.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga): I have a couple of questions about the Bill that I
hope the Minister will be good enough to answer. He mentioned that the loss of goods is
insurable at present, but anybody using a carrier knows that there are ways and means of
insuring privately now. If I understood the Minister correctly, it is possible under the new
measure to claim up to $1,000 on goods carried inside the country should they be lost by a
carrier. This is a tremendous leap forward from the $40 now claimable. I take it that this is
for the carriage of goods inside New Zealand only, and does not apply to goods carried
outside our shores. That is another contentious issue, particularly in the trans-Tasman trade,
where we have a lot of bother at present, with carriers having different responsibilities. Have
the Minister or his department done an exercise on how much this will add to cartage costs
inside New Zealand?-because, for sure, the carrier is not going to carry this extra liability,
but will offload it somehow. He will take out insurance with the private insurers, or
somewhere along the line, and that will be written into the carriage charges. I notice that
clause 4 of the Bill exempts the Post Office. I should like to see the Post Office included,
because it carries a tremendous amount of goods inside New Zealand, and many people have
had some pretty sad experiences of damage or loss of goods handled by the Post Office.
I, too, welcome the Government's proposal to send the Bill to a select committee,
because this is one measure that, although it has taken 8 years to get to the stage now
reached, we should not be in too big a hurry to put into law until everybody affected has had
a chance to digest the Minister's proposals.
Mr Birch: That's why it's going to a select committee.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY: That is why I welcome the idea of its going to a select committee,
but I urge the select committee not to be in too great a hurry to push the Bill through, as
happens from time to time. Transport plays an important part in everybody's life, and I feel
that we should make haste slowly with this legislation.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): As the chairman of the select committee that will be dealing
with the Bill, if it is referred as the Minister has indicated, let me assure the member who has
just resumed his seat that the committee will deal with the matter in its usual efficacious way,
and that there will be neither too much speed nor unnecessary delay on a matter that has
19-Vol. 412


## p. 2130 (#586) ###########################################

2130
12 August
Carriage of Goods Bill
already been in the hands of successive Governments for 9 years. I welcome the introduction
of the Bill, and compliment the Minister on the manner in which he is getting through the
large number of law reform committee reports that have been delivered over the past few
years. As many members know, over those years these reports have tended to gather dust
on the shelves of the Department of Justice, and I know the law societies are particularly
pleased with the progress being made to achieve some very worth-while law reforms over a
wide range.
The Bill provides a procedure whereby a carrier effectively acts as an insurer with
almost absolute liability up to $1,000 for the carriage of goods. Perhaps, in answer to the
previous speaker, one could observe that the Bill provides a liability up to $1,000. It
appeared from his remarks that he assumed that for any loss, no matter how much, no
matter how inconsequential, the liability was $1,000. He also mentioned the Post Office,
which, of course, has its own Act, with its own liability built into that Act. Its manner of
carriage of goods is quite different from that which is common to the type of carrier covered
by this legislation. The select committee will be looking at the legislation with considerable
care, particularly as it comes from such an eminent committee as the Contracts and
Commercial Law Reform Committee.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): The member for Heretaunga knows perfectly well that you
cannot get $1,000 back, having lost a tin of spaghetti. The Opposition will be looking at the
liability limit of $1,000 proposed in the Bill, because that is the level at which seemingly
absolute liability will prevail, but it is also the level that will prohibit those consigning goods
from getting effective insurance cover. Insurance companies by and large are not stupid, and
will not willingly insure goods against loss while not enjoying the right of subrogation of the
action of the consignor against the carrier. In other words, the insurance company would not
be able to recover from the carrier the amount paid to the insured person had there been
negligence on the part of the carrier. The Statutes Revision Committee will be looking at
that limit, and I suggest that a new level of liability could be created above that so that, if
there is negligence on the part of the carrier, the person sending the goods will be entitled to
recompense. That matter could well be considered by the Government, and by the
committee.
The Opposition welcomes the principle set out in the Bill of having the limit of $1,000
increased from time to time by Order in Council. That principle in legislation is endorsed,
because the protection afforded those who use goods services can be enhanced from time to
time to keep pace with commercial practice. The Opposition looks forward to examining the
Bill in the Statutes Revision Committee.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I thank honourable members for the
warmth of their welcome to the Bill, and their agreement that it should be carefully studied
by the Statutes Revision Committee. The member for Mangere suggested that the liability
provision of $1,000 established in the Bill might be varied by Order in Council. That would
be convenient if there were continuous high inflation.
Mr Lange: It's in the Bill.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Yes. It is a moot point that can be studied by the committee.
There is something to be said in these cases for bringing the Act back to Parliament, and
letting Parliament have another look at whether we are doing justice in making movements
in quantities. The member for Heretaunga had a number of questions on what I said about
the present law, and, as I understood it, the ability of a carrier to contract out of his liability.
It is one of the present anomalies. A common carrier by land at present is absolutely liable
for loss or damage of goods up to $40 per package or unit, but he can exclude all his liability
by a special contract. This will be overcome if the committee decides to go along with the
proposals in the Bill.
The member asked if the Bill dealt with sea carriage around the coast. Yes, it does. He
also asked whether any possible increase in costs had been considered. The Railways
representatives told the Minister of Railways and myself at the Cabinet committee meeting
that they were concerned that the new provisions might increase railway costs, which at
present are about $2 million. However, there is no certainty of that. I have indicated to my
colleagues that I expect the Statutes Revision Committee will be hearing from the Railways,
not during the public sessions but by a departmental report in the normal way.
The exclusion of the Post Office was mentioned. It has been traditional, of course, that
when one posts a letter, that is it; there is no contract. As most of the Post Office work is the
delivery of mail, it was decided to leave that department out entirely. Some of the goods
carried by the Post Office are already compensated up to $1,000. The rest of the goods


## p. 2131 (#587) ###########################################

12 August
2131
Carriage of Goods Bill
consist of a large volume of items of small value. However, no doubt the committee will be
looking at that. I suspect that some of the carriers giving evidence to the committee will say
that as they have to accept the liability why should not the Crown, through the Post Office,
do likewise. The member for Heretaunga urged that the committee take time to study the
Bill, which is a complex one. The chairman of the Statutes Revision Committee, the member
for Birkenhead, has already indicated that every interested party will be invited to make
submissions, and that the committee will take time over its deliberations. I assume that the
necessary changes will be made in the personnel of the committee to include people from
both sides who are interested in the carriage of goods.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Bill be referred to the
Statutes Revision Committee, and that during the hearing of evidence the proceedings of the
Committee be open to accredited members of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Education-Cost of Transporting Pupils
1. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru), on behalf of Mr COOPER (Otago Central), asked the
Minister of Education: What is the total cost of providing transport and conveyance in
education board areas throughout New Zealand, how many pupils are carried, and how
many miles are covered?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The total cost of providing transport
and conveyance in the year ended 31 March 1977 was $14.84 million, the total number of
children carried was 121 235, and the total distance covered, excluding public transport, was
23 526 000 miles.
Mr Marshall: Is the Minister satisfied with the way the public transport system works in
with the education system?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I can only answer that question by saying that I have had no
complaints about the way the public transport system is conveying children to school.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Town and Country Planning Legislation
2. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Works and Develop-
ment: In view of the problems which delay is creating for local authorities and the public, can
he give a firm date when town and country planning, or regional and district planning,
legislation will be (a) introduced into Parliament and (b) passed by Parliament?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): Legislation to review the
Town and Country Planning Act 1953 is now in the final stages of preparation, and will be
introduced as soon as possible. It is my wish that the Bill be passed this year, but that will
depend on Parliament.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is the Minister unable to give a firm assurance that legislation
will be passed this year?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: The honourable member should know that I cannot dictate to the
House.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is it not correct that a Town and Country Planning Review
Committee report was available in 1973 and that no legislation was introduced by the last
Labour Government as a result of that report?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I can confirm that a review committee was set up in 1972 and
reported back in September 1973. In the following 2 years, when the Labour Government
had an opportunity to do something about the report, it did nothing.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: Once the legislation is introduced, does the Minister propose to have
it sent to a select committee so that interested parties may make submissions?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: Yes, I can give that assurance, which I have previously given
publicly.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Will the Minister confirm that draft town and country planning
legislation was at an advanced stage when he took over his portfolio, and will he indicate why
it is taking so long to introduce legislation?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I have no knowledge of any draft legislation dealing with town and.
19.


## p. 2132 (#588) ###########################################

2132
12 August
Oral Answers to Questions
country planning when the Labour Government went out of office. My information was that
the report had been pigeon-holed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Railway Line Upgrading, Otago
3. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Railways: Has he the seen
the Christchurch Press of 5 July, in which it is reported that yet another goods train
derailment has occurred at Seacliff, 25 km north of Dunedin, the fifth this year and the
second in less than a week on this section of track, and, if so, what is he doing to ensure that
this section of the track is improved to prevent more derailments?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways): I have seen a report in the
Christchurch Press of 5 August, which presumably is the one to which the honourable
member refers. The section of the track between Seacliff and Dunedin has always been
known as difficult, and some sections have tended to give trouble, particularly in bad
weather conditions. In this instance, a soft spot developed at a site which had not previously
been suspect, and the rails moved sufficiently to contribute to the derailment of a four-
wheeled goods wagon. For some time now, work has been under way on embankment
stabilisation in this area. As I pointed out in my reply to a similar question, regular
inspections are carried out on this section, as they are on every other operating line in the
country. However, particular attention is given to known trouble spots.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: As the Minister explained in his reply that this is a difficult
section of line, and referred to the appearance of a soft spot, has he given consideration to a
possible alternative route when such problems do arise, because rail is the lifeline of the
South Island?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: As I pointed out yesterday in reply to a question from the
member for Dunedin Central I have had a discussion during the past week with the Deputy
General Manager of Railways, who is responsible for the track. I have asked him to have a
special look at this part of the line. Derailments are not always caused by track formation. Of
the five derailments occurring at Seacliff this year, two were caused by track conditions, one
by ground conditions, one by improper loading, and the other by a combination of track and
wagon interaction. However, as this is a difficult section of the line I have asked the
management to pay special attention to it.
Mr Bruce Barclay: The Minister mentioned known trouble spots at Seacliff. However,
could restructuring of the line be carried out in other known trouble spots on the South
Island's main trunk line, particularly the Christchurch to Picton section?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do not have a great deal of information, but the
expression "trouble spots" does not apply only to the section north of Dunedin. Parts of the
Christchurch-West Coast line are designated as trouble spots.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Picton?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Yes, on the Picton line and in other parts of the country.
But they are known spots, which are given added attention in both checking the line and
maintenance.
Mr Elworthy: Could the Minister confirm that the problems have been complicated this
winter by exceptionally high rainfall?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Yes, especially on the Picton line, where slips caused
difficulties, but not, thank goodness, to the same extent as the one on the East Coast of the
North Island, which was particularly bad.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
School Textbooks Scrutiny
4. Squadron Leader DRAYTON (St. Albans) asked the Minister of Education: Is he
prepared to consider a system of school textbook scrutiny as practised in Texas, and
publicised by Mrs Norma Gabler on her recent visit?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I am well aware of the issue raised in the
honourable member's question. It is one to which I have given a great deal of consideration,
even before the recent publicity given as a result of Mrs Gabler's visit. It raises the very big
question as to the extent to which the Department of Education-as an agency of central
government should be given the responsibility for determining the actual textbooks to be
prescribed for use in State schools. It seems to me that a more likely and effective way of


## p. 2133 (#589) ###########################################

12 August
2133
Oral Answers to Questions
providing a form of public scrutiny would be one that placed the responsibility on the
principal and controlling authority of a school to have procedures for prior consultation with
parents where the selection of potentially contentious textbooks might be an issue.
Squadron Leader Drayton: Can I take it from the Minister's answer that he is aware of
the concern of a number of parents about some textbooks which have been introduced into
schools in recent times?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: I am aware that there is what appears to be a growing concern by
parents. The Texas system would be very difficult to implement in New Zealand. Texas has a
population of 11 000 000, and even with that population the rights to public scrutiny that
exist make it very difficult for teachers. The only possible way we could introduce that sort of
system in New Zealand-using textbooks which have a relevance to New Zealand, and are
based on New Zealand information-would be for a pre-publication examination. That
raises all sorts of difficulties. I am convinced that, in the more contentious fields anyway,
public scrutiny should be available at a local level, so that parents concerned about this could
consult with their principals and the school authorities. That is in line with the National
Government's policy of devolution of responsibility to the local level.
Mr Elliott: Would the Minister agree that, despite the need to be vigilant in the use of
contentious textbooks in schools, professional teachers would be placed in an impossible
situation if every textbook they used must first be checked by a parent or some lay person in
the community before it was used in a classroom?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Yes, that should be very obvious, and it indicates the sort of
difficulty we have. I believe that, with the professional advice available to teachers through
the senior inspectors and through the Department of Education's involvement in the
curriculum, sufficient guidance can be given on the normal sorts of books introduced into
schools for the everyday and normal forms of the curriculum. But we move into a more
difficult area when we consider the possible introduction of instruction in human develop-
ment and human relationships. It is quite explicit in our policy that in this field there should
be a right for the individual parents to withdraw their child; and there should also be the
right for a parent to be consulted about the introduction of material on human development.
But I think it, would be impossible to have this sort of public scrutiny of every book in every
part of the curriculum.
Dr Wall: Does the Minister think that the Texas method-where there is public
scrutiny is quite impracticable for New Zealand?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: We have two problems. One is the question of textbooks and
material used for, say, the teaching of mathematics, on which there is professional expertise.
In that field, there is no right for a parent to demand changes in textbooks. Parents may have
to be given reasons why a particular textbook is being used; I think they are entitled to that
explanation. But I think when we get to the more contentious fields, it is possible to devise a
system where parents have some rights along the lines I mentioned earlier.
Dr Wall: Since the Minister understands the problem, would he indicate what steps are
now available to parents to review the textbooks and any ancillary texts which may be
available in the schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: Parents have no absolute rights in primary schools, but a greater
interest by parents in the school committees would lead to more information being
exchanged between teachers, principals, and parents to explain the purposes of the text-
books when there is some concern about them. Material used in primary schools is largely
that which is prescribed by the Department of Education. In the case of secondary schools,
the material is within the constraints of the curriculum and the requirements for examina-
tions. The actual material used is the responsibility of the principal, and he is responsible to
the school board or council, on which there would be a majority of parents. That is the
present route that parents have for examining that sort of material.
Dr Wall: I am still not clear what steps a parent can take, and what right a parent has to
go to a school and inquire what books are being used or are available for the children.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The parent has the same formal right that any person has to
make an inquiry. Whether the information is given or not is, of course, a different matter. If
a parent is unhappy or dissatisfied with the results of the inquiry he may go through his
parent representative to the board, and presumably the board can instruct the principal to
give the information. But we are talking about a slightly different matter-the control of the
material going in. I am sure there is no reason why the information should not be given to
parents.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2134 (#590) ###########################################

2134
12 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Accident Compensation Commission Report
5. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Labour: As section 178 of the
Accident Compensation Act 1972 requires the Accident Compensation Commission to
report to him on its operations during the last financial year by the end of June, and that the
report be presented by him to Parliament as soon as practicable after that, can he advise
whether he received the report by the end of June, and when will it be presented?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): A request from the Cabinet office required
the 1977 annual report of the Accident Compensation Commission to be delivered to the
Government Printer by 10 June 1977. It was delivered by the commission on 13 June. Page
proofs are not yet available. The Government Printer is well aware of the urgency of the
matter and is now doing all he can to complete the printing.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Local Authority Accounts
6. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Local Government: What steps does
he propose to take to remedy the situation revealed in the report of the Controller and
Auditor-General on local authorities accounts, which states that 34 local and public
authorities failed to live within their income and 31 indulged in excessive short-term
borrowing, for which breaches no penalties are provided for persistent offenders?
Mr COMBER (Parliamentary Under-Secretary to the Minister of Local Government): I
reply on behalf of the Minister of Local Government. His answer is as follows: "The fact that
the number of breaches by local authorities of the provisions of the Local Authorities Loans
Act 1956 has increased over the last 2 years does concern me, and I have already had
discussions with the Controller and Auditor-General on the situation. Local authorities
should be, and no doubt are, well aware of the statutory requirements which prohibit them
from having a deficit financial situation at balance date. However, due either to inadequate
budgetary procedures or to unforeseen increases in estimated expenditure, some local
authorities find themselves in overdraft beyond the legal limits at the end of the financial
year-a situation that very often rights itself over a short period. I should like to explore
possibilities other than the imposition of statutory penalities on either elected members or
staff of local authorities in breach of the Act in an endeavour to find a satisfactory way of
overcoming the problem. In my opinion, the issue raised by the Controller and Auditor-
General could be resolved if greater efforts were applied to the proper training and
qualification of senior local government staff, on whom rests the responsibility for guiding
their councils in these matters."
Mr T. J. Young: Can the Under-Secretary indicate whether the requirements of the law
are so inflexible that the Government is prepared to introduce legislation to overcome that
problem?
Mr COMBER: I do not know that there is a requirement to change the legislation, but
there well may be a need to look at the regulations that govern the situation referred to by
the honourable member. In the light of new evidence I am sure that the Minister will be
prepared to do that. However, when considering any changes I think we should always bear
in mind that local authorities deal with public moneys, in the same way as central
government. This means that the public interest must always be paramount.
Mr Birch: Can the Under-Secretary confirm that it is unwise for a local authority to
deposit money it has raised for loan purposes in its bank account to offset an overdraft with
the bank?
Mr COMBER: Certainly that is a practice I do not think should be encouraged.
Mr O'Brien: As the situation is a little more alarming than has been indicated by the
Minister's reply, I should like an indication of when the Government intends to act and of
the way in which it will act other than just look at the question raised. In his report the
Controller and Auditor-General makes specific reference to loan moneys used for purposes
other than those for which the loan was raised, and to non-compliance with loan sanctions by
local authorities. It appears that local authorities are continuing the old "Featherston Street
fiddle", about which I have been talking. Can the Under-Secretary indicate when the
Government intends to act?
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I suggest to you that the
honourable member was not in fact asking a question. The statements he made in the course


## p. 2135 (#591) ###########################################

12 August
2135
Oral Answers to Questions
of putting the question were irrelevant, and I submit that he was entirely out of order.
Mr O'Brien: Speaking to the point of order, I was dissatisfied with the original answer,
which I considered was pure waffle, so I was giving my reasons for asking whether the
Government was seriously considering the point raised in the original question. I hoped to
receive a proper answer.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Speaking further to the point of order, I suggest that the
honourable member has convicted himself.
Mr SPEAKER: The question has been raised as to whether the lengthy preamble to the
supplementary question—although it was not put in that way—was in contravention of the
Standing Orders in that it appeared to be more a statement than a question. The member
concerned said he was not satisfied with the original answer and he was giving his reasons. I
am sure he is not the only member of the House who is occasionally dissatisfied with the
original answer and even with subsequent answers, but that does not give any member
justification for making a little speech about why he does not like the answers given. The
supplementary questions procedure is designed to provide elucidation, explanation, or
clarification of an answer already given. The member is entitled to ask a question, but not to
make a little speech as a prelude.
Mr COMBER: The Government and the Minister obviously have more confidence in
local government than the member for Island Bay. However, the Minister viewed the
situation seriously enough to have discussions with the Controller and Auditor-General
within 24 hours of the report being tabled. I know that the president of the Municipal
Association has had similar discussions with the Controller and Auditor-General, and it is
possible that some changes may be suggested as a result of the discussions held. However,
local government has a responsibility to take note of the Controller and Auditor-General's
report, as is stated explicitly in the Minister's answer to the original question.
Mr Minogue: Has the Minister considered the possibility that the regulations and rules
pursuant to which local authorities are required to work are in fact out of date and in urgent
need of review?
Mr COMBER: It is felt that there may be some degree of inflexibility in the present
regulations pertaining to the situation raised in the original question. We will certainly have
a look at the possibility of making changes if they are considered warranted, but I repeat that
we must at all times ensure that the regulations provide the necessary degree of protection
for the public.
Mr Elliott: Can the Minister confirm that instalment rating, used by some local bodies to
assist in spreading their income throughout the year, would prevent the need for excessive
short-term borrowing in times when income is down, and if other local bodies adopted that
policy it could help to avoid the difficulties they encounter at present?
Mr COMBER: I am aware, of course, that the introduction of instalment rating has to
some degree overcome some of the short-term difficulties local authorities have experienced
in the past.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Superannuation and Concessions
7. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is it
not a fact that a married couple formerly on age benefit, of which one partner is under 60,
would have received in cash and kind, including the Christmas bonus and the TV and
telephone concessions, a weekly income of $81.40 if they had private income of $10 a week,
while under national superannuation that same couple can expect an income of only $76.50
after this month's adjustment?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): It is quite meaningless to make such
comparisons. The calculations in the honourable member's question are based on an
assessment of terminal tax liability, and this cannot be assessed until the end of the financial
year having regard to variations in the superannuitant's income during the year, his
particular tax exemptions, and any tax rebates he may be entitled to. I stress that all former
age beneficiaries on national superannuation are receiving significantly more cash in hand
payments than they would have been receiving if the age benefit had been retained.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that it is possible to make a tax assessment on the
basis of the declared national superannuation rate for this year plus a declared income of $10
a week on the basis of the tax rates set out and confirmed in the Budget?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, it is not possible, because of the variables. At this stage,


## p. 2136 (#592) ###########################################

2136
12 August
Oral Answers to Questions
nobody can tell how much a person will earn or receive in extra income by the end of the
next financial year. I remind the House that, as from Thursday next, there will be a
substantial increase in the cash payment of national superannuation. The benefit will be
adjusted again in February 1978, in line with increases in the Department of Labour's
survey, and, on 31 August 1978, the benefit will increase to 80 percent of the average
ordinary-time weekly wage. Opposition members should remember that the payment under
the last Labour Government was only 53 percent of the average weekly wage.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Was not the Minister's reply based on cash payments only, and,
if cash and kind payments are taken into account, as they should be, the facts set out in my
original question are correct?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It is quite impossible to determine terminal tax, which cannot be
assessed until after the end of the next financial year. The member has not taken into
account possible rebates that may be due to the beneficiary, such as exemptions for interest,
insurance premiums, and charitable donations, and whether or not he has other income. No
exact answer can be given to the member's purely hypothetical question.
Mr Marshall: Can the Minister confirm that a number of couples, where one partner is
under the age of 60, are not now receiving television and telephone rebates because of the
imposition of a means test?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Persons entitled to national superannuation are not subject to a
means test. If a person does not qualify for national superannuation—is under the age of 60,
or does not have the necessary residential qualification-but the other marriage partner does
qualify, there is a means test, as was clearly set out in our election policy. There is no means
test for those people who do qualify.
Mr Lange: Is the Minister saying that those on national superannuation from the age of
60 will qualify for television and telephone concessions without a means test?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Our policy clearly states that these concessions will be phased out
when the income of a married couple reaches $88.20 a week or, for a single person, $60.80 a
week. If beneficiaries have other income at present, then, dependent on that other income,
they may have their concessions phased out.
Mr Fenton: Would the Minister agree that the term "means test" has been used
inadvertently and inaccurately, and should be replaced by the term "income test"?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, that is correct. I emphasise that the test is applicable only
when one of the marriage partners is receiving the benefit but does not qualify for it in his or
her right.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Referring back to the Minister's reply to my last question, if I
advise him that built into the calculations is the present personal statutory exemption, will he
confirm that the figures stated in my question are correct?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, I will not. The question is hypothetical, and neither the
questioner nor anybody else in this House can say how much income a person will receive by
the end of this financial year, knowing full well there will be two increases in the benefit
between now and then, and without knowing what other private income the person will
receive. It is quite impossible to give a factual answer to the member's hypothetical question.
Mr Elliott: Will the Minister confirm what he has said on a number of occasions, that
this Government will see that nobody is worse off under national superannuation?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, that is set out very clearly in our policy. If, after the end of
the next financial year, a person can show that he has been disadvantaged because of the
introduction of national superannuation, we have stated in our policy that any case
submitted to us will be reviewed. To date, no one-not even a member of the
Opposition has been able to submit to me one case where a beneficiary is worse off.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that the case submitted in my original question
determines that beneficiaries would have been better off under the former pension than
under national superannuation; and is not the Minister avoiding confirmation of this fact?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, I am not avoiding giving an answer to the member's
question, but I would remind the House and the country that national superannuation is at
present paid at the rate of 70 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage. Two
increases will be given between now and the end of this financial year, and the benefit will be
further increased to 80 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly wage as from 31 August
1978. Under the Labour Government, the value of the benefit was only 53 percent of the
average ordinary-time weekly wage. Of course people are much better off under national
superannuation.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2137 (#593) ###########################################

12 August
2137
Oral Answers to Questions
National Superannuation and Concessions
8. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is it
not a fact that a former single age beneficiary with other income of $10 a week would
receive, after making allowances for TV and telephone concessions and the Christmas
bonus, an income of $53.34, and thus would be better off than he now is on national
superannuation, when his total income after tax, including concessions, will be only $51.45 a
week after this month's adjustment?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): It is quite meaningless to make such
comparisons. The calculations in the honourable member's question are based on an
assessment of terminal tax liability, and this cannot be assessed until the end of the financial
year, having regard to variations in the superannuitant's income during the year, his
particular tax exemptions, and any tax rebates he may be entitled to. I would stress that all
former age beneficiaries on national superannuation are receiving significantly more cash in
hand payments than they would have been receiving if age benefit had been retained.
Moreover, because of the removal of the income test, they now have the opportunity to
increase their income, thereby placing themselves in an even better position.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is the Minister backing away from the opportunity of establish-
ing whether the pensioner in the case mentioned is worse off under national superannuation
than he would have been on the former pension?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I do not know how I can put it more clearly for the honourable
member, but there is no question that national superannuitants, both married and single, are
better off under national superannuation. I have not backed away from answering questions
on national superannuation, but I do invite the Opposition to submit just one case, if it can,
to show that a beneficiary is worse off because of the introduction of national superannua-
tion.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is the Minister's original answer not based on an assumption at
odds with the content of the question when he refers to possible variations in the income of
the beneficiary, whereas the question explicitly states that the income would continue to be
no more than $10 a week throughout the whole year?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It is purely a hypothetical question.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: It is not.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Of course it is. The honourable member cannot say what a
person's income will be as at 31 March next. It is quite impossible. It is purely a hypothetical
question.
Mr Elliott: Can the Minister confirm that the situation will be satisfactorily resolved
when the vast majority of grateful superannuitants vote National in November 1978?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That is bordering on the frivolous.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Since the Minister knows that we know this question will have
been submitted to the department, has the department indicated to him in its notes that
there is any inaccuracy quoted in the question?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: How can there be an inaccuracy in a hypothetical question. I
invite the member for Roskill to submit one case if he can where anyone is worse off or will
be worse off because of the introduction of national superannuation. I remind the member
that there will be a substantial increase in the cash payment on Thursday of next week. There
will be another increase in February of next year in line with the increase as assessed by the
Department of Labour, and then the benefit will go up to 80 percent of the average ordinary-
time weekly wage on 31 August next. I should also point out that any tax which would be due
on this financial year's income will not be payable until the February following the end of this
financial year, and of course the 80 percent will be paid well before that.
Mr Birch: Is the Minister aware of the announcement made by the Deputy Leader of
the Opposition on Wednesday night on Radio Windy that a Labour Government would
introduce a means test if it ever gained office again?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I happened to hear the honourable member make that
statement. I have heard a number of statements made during the course of the Budget
debate which clearly indicate that a Labour Government would scrap national superannua-
tion if it went back on the Treasury benches. People then would be considerably worse off
because of Labour's policy.
Mr Lange: How does the Minister propose to give effect to his undertaking that on the
expiration of the tax year he will make sure that no one on national superannuation has


## p. 2138 (#594) ###########################################

2138
12 August
Oral Answers to Questions
suffered any loss of income-below that which he would have received under the former
pension-if, in fact next week there will be a large increase in the cash payment, and how
will it be established? Will the Minister compensate those whose income has been less from 1
April until 19 August?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It is quite impossible for anyone to be worse off as a result of
national superannuation. If the honourable member can submit a case it will certainly be
considered.
Mr Marshall: Can the Minister confirm that in answer to these two questions he has
been saying that he will not consider seriously a claim that anybody will be worse off until 31
March and that the first time anyone will be able to be sure he is worse off will be on April
Fools Day?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I invite the member for Wanganui to submit a case to show me
that somebody is worse off or will be worse off. I also remind the member again that national
superannuation today is paid at the rate of 70 percent of the average ordinary-time weekly
wage and that it will be going up to 80 percent on 31 August next. The member for Wanganui
wants to scrap the superannuation scheme and put the age beneficiaries back on 53 percent
of the average ordinary-time weekly wage. He wants to require the age beneficiary-
Mr SPEAKER: Order! A long dissertation about the wants of a member is not really an
answer to a question. As an experiment I have been letting this run to see where it would go,
and it has gone a long way.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Since the question is about a case the Minister said he would
consider, can I take it that since he has not denied the accuracy of the figures then he is
unable to deny that they are other than accurate?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I say again that the question is hypothetical.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: No, it is a case.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: If the president of the Labour Party can put up a case to me then
let him do so, but he has failed to do it yet. He cannot produce one.
Mr SPEAKER: I really feel that I should end this experiment. It is going far too far.
Since I am in a generous mood this morning, and we have covered 66 questions this week,
which is a vast improvement on past weeks, I will allow questions from the four members
already on their feet.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: As a genuine attempt to participate in your experiment, now that
we know the Minister's stock reply off by heart, would you allow us the indulgence of asking
him to answer the questions we asked.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: If the honourable member will submit a genuine case with names
and addresses the position will be investigated. As yet no member of the Labour Party has
been able to produce a genuine case. They have all been hypothetical ones which are quite
impossible to answer by anyone in this House, irrespective of which side he is on.
Mr Wellington: Do I take it that the members opposite who have been complaining
about persons supposedly being worse off have not made representations to the Minister on
behalf of their constituents?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I have not had a genuine case submitted to me. Everyone is
better off because of the introduction of national superannuation.
Mr SPEAKER: Since the member from Wigram had the original question I think it
would be better if he were to have the final supplementary.
Hon. Michael Connelly: I should like to tell the Minister that this is a specific case being
put to him-
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: A point of order, Mr Speaker. The honourable member has
made it quite clear that he does not want to ask a question; he wants to make a statement,
and that is entirely out of order.
Mr SPEAKER: Yes, I must agree that the member should not commence what is
ostensibly a question by saying "I want to tell the Minister". If the member has a
supplementary question perhaps he should ask it.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Since the Minister has said no one will be worse off under
national superannuation, is he prepared to assert that the facts disclosed in this question are
incorrect?
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: A point of order, Mr Speaker. That question has already been
asked about three times this morning.
Mr SPEAKER: I have a feeling along those lines, but in case it is a faint variation on a
well-worn theme, and since I have said it is the last supplementary, I propose to let it be
answered.


## p. 2139 (#595) ###########################################

12 August
2139
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Since this is the last answer I am permitted to give, let me
emphasise that this is a purely hypothetical question. The questioner has no way of
ascertaining what a beneficiary's income will be at the end of this financial year. Neither has
he any way of ascertaining what rebates or tax concessions a beneficiary may receive, or
what other income he may have. It is purely hypothetical. I have asked Opposition members
to submit genuine cases with genuine names and addresses so that I can check the files. I will
state the position publicly if they produce a case where anyone is worse off. No one can be
worse off under national superannuation.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Mr SPEAKER: Before we move on to the next matter I think I should mention, as I
have referred often to the slow progress we make on questions, that we have this week made
very good progress for the most part. However, on the little experiment I did try when I took
my foot right off the throttle, so to speak, we had no fewer than 7 ostensibly elucidatory
questions on question 7, and no fewer than 11 on question 8, and there were still more to
flow. That shows that the enormous voracity of members for asking supplementary questions
does need to be checked, and I hope they will sympathise with me in my task of doing just
that.
BUSINESS OF THE HOUSE
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): I take the opportunity to give an
indication of the work for the House next week. As I understand it, the Budget debate is
likely to conclude on either Wednesday or Thursday. We will have the Supplementary Order
Paper and notices of motion on Wednesday afternoon, and at the conclusion of the Budget
debate will proceed to Orders of the Day as set out in the Order Paper.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): Could I ask the Acting Prime Minister
whether the Government proposes to debate either Government notice of motion No. 1 or
No. 2, or whether the Government proposes to arrange a foreign affairs debate?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Acting Prime Minister): As I have indicated, we will
proceed next week to the Order Paper as it is set out. As I said last week in answer to a
similar question, it is not expected that there will be further debate on notice of motion No.
2. I expect there will be debate on notice of motion No. 1, but the Prime Minister will
determine this. The Prime Minister has in mind a debate on foreign affairs, the actual timing
of which will be determined by him on his return.
DRUG SENTENCING AND PREVENTION OF MISUSE BILL
With the leave of the House, it was agreed that the speaking time of the member for
Sydenham be extended.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): I move, That leave be given to introduce the Drug Sentencing and
Prevention of Misuse Bill. Í thank the House for the opportunity to introduce this Bill. It is a
very sobering thought that New South Wales, with a society similar to our own, is estimated
by the health authorities to have 10 000 heroin addicts in its 4 700 000 population. Time is
short, so I will concentrate on the technicalities of the Bill.
Part I seeks two modifications to the Misuse of Drugs Act 1975. For a first offender
involved in trafficking class A drugs into New Zealand-for example heroin, LSD, and
cocaine-the sentence of imprisonment proposed in the Bill shall be not less than 10 years
and not more than 15 years. For a second trafficking involving hard drugs into or out of New
Zealand, the mandatory sentence proposed is a minimum of 15 years to a maximum of 25
years. These sentences will not be reducible unless special mitigating factors can be
established, which the judge must reduce to writing when he gives his decision.
Part II deals with the Customs Department, which can play an important role in the
reduction, if not elimination, of the supply of hard drugs in New Zealand. Many people feel
that sufficient information on drug trafficking is not available to New Zealanders who leave
for overseas countries. Some have been interrogated and actually charged with some kind of
narcotics trafficking offence through participating in what may have seemed to them to be a
completely harmless operation. It is time that a few of the basic techniques employed to
inveigle or involye unwitting tourists or travellers in a narcotic trafficking operation were
clearly explained. Also, travellers should be informed about the penalties they will be
bjected to if they become involved in such operations. To deter those who might become


## p. 2140 (#596) ###########################################

2140
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
involved in trafficking hard drugs into New Zealand, the penalties should be printed on the
customs arrival document, to be read by all people who arrive through normal passenger
channels.
Another facet that has given the Customs Department a certain amount of consterna-
tion has been the trafficking of drugs through the unannounced arrival of small ships such as
yachts. It would clearly be an advantage to the Customs Department to know the projected
date, and time and place, of arrival of a vessel or private aircraft. At present there is no onus
on the master of an aircraft or a ship on a non-scheduled journey to New Zealand to provide
this information. In terms of profiling the arrival of this type of vessel or aircraft, it would be
of help to the Customs Department to know of the previous three ports of call. It could also
be in the interests of marine safety to know the features of identification of a small vessel,
and its call sign, so that if it is overdue a search can be instituted with some fair estimate of
where it should be. I feel this section would go a long way towards removing the supply of
hard drugs into this country.
With the addition of section 268A to the Misuse of Drugs Act, the Minister will now be
bound to distribute to persons who provide information that leads to a prosecution a set
percentage of the street value of a drug that has been intercepted. At present, if somebody
provides information that leads to the successful interception of a narcotic trafficking
operation, it is up to the Minister to decide what amount of money will be paid by way of a
reward for the information provided. It is well known that a severe risk is taken by anybody
who provides information on drug trafficking. The recent murder in Australia of a person
involved in the anti-drug movement stands testimony to that fact. Knowledge of the reward
for imparting information to the authorities would be a real incentive to help stamp out the
drug problem. It has been stated that the amount of money assessed by the prosecuting
authorities as the street value of a drug has been inflated for the purposes of presenting a
more awesome case and securing a conviction. An accurate assessment of street value would
result in a fair deal for a person who provided information, and would mean that the
trafficker was charged with an offence that truly represented the extent of his operations.
Part III deals with the Police Act. It has become obvious that the American drug
enforcement administration, and other governmental bodies in countries concerned about
preventing the manufacture and trafficking of drugs, feel it is time New Zealand pulled its
socks up and did its fair share of the work. A good move would be the appointment of a
narcotics liaison officer in South-east Asia. He would have a very valuable role to play in
stemming the flow of narcotics from South-east Asia to New Zealand, and would also be
seen to represent New Zealand's international concern over the hard-drug problem, which
up till now has been minor. This would be very valuable, and many of the authorities in
South-east Asia, Europe, and America would like New Zealand to make this move. From
discussions I have had with people in the Police Department I know they support the concept
of beating the problem before it arrives. I commend this to the House as another reason for
supporting the Bill.
In terms of Part IV, the Minister in Charge of the Legislative Department-the Prime
Minister-would request Parliament to set up a standing committee to consider various
aspects of drug abuse, and to make reports from time to time. There is a need to adopt an
overall review of the drug abuse problem in New Zealand. I do not totally subscribe to the
belief that supply reduction in itself is enough. A balanced response to the problem of drug
abuse is needed, by the addition of a vigorous prevention and treatment component to the
existing law enforcement efforts. There is a need for a balanced programme.
The basic objective of supply reduction effort is to make drugs more difficult to obtain,
and more expensive and risky to possess, sell, or consume. When relatively pure heroin at
low cost became available to American servicemen in South-east Asia, use was widespread.
When those servicemen returned to the United States, where heroin is much more costly and
hazardous to obtain, use dropped dramatically. During 1972-73, a shortage of heroin on the
east coast of America coincided with significant reductions in the incidence and prevalence
of heroin use there. It is felt that successful supply reduction efforts can minimise the number
of new users, increase the numbers of old users who abandon use, and decrease the
consumption of current users. It goes without saying that no supply reduction effort can be
completely effective, but it would be a start on a growing and serious problem.
The Bill is an attempt to give Parliament the opportunity of expressing its concern about
the growth of drug trafficking in New Zealand, and an opportunity for parliamentarians as
individuals to express and prove their concern about a problem that no doubt in turn causes
concern in many of the constituencies they represent. A standing parliamentary committee is


## p. 2141 (#597) ###########################################

12 August
2141
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
called for, because there is a need to adopt at legislative level a strategy for containing drug
abuse. The key to the adoption of the strategy for containing drug abuse should surely be
that we must be realistic about what can be achieved and what the appropriate role of the
Government is in the war against drugs. The fact of the matter is that some members of our
society will seek to escape from the stresses of life through drug use. Prevention, education,
treatment, and rehabilitation will curtail their number, but will not entirely eliminate drug
use. As long as there is a demand, criminal drug traffickers will make some supply available
if the potential profits outweigh the risk of detection and punishment. This again enforces
the need for a harder line on sentencing and policing. Vigorous supply reduction efforts will
reduce but not eliminate supply. However, it is eminently more suitable to reduce the supply
of drugs into New Zealand to a level that can be policed and is of controllable proportions.
There is a need for an assessment of the current situation, to decide the principal drugs
of abuse and their ranking, taking into account their consequences to the individual—who
after all is a member of society—and to society as a whole. The second point of Part IV
covers this. Not all drug use is equally destructive, and we should give priority in our
treatment and enforcement efforts to those drugs that pose the greatest risk to compulsive
users of drugs of any kind. Our policy should reflect a concern about those drugs with the
highest social cost. This does not suggest devoting every resource to the highest priority
drugs and none to the lower priority drugs. All drugs are dangerous in varying degrees and
should receive attention. I emphasise that those drugs with the potential for causing the
highest social cost should be given priority.
The third part of this section concerns the examination of enforcement procedures
necessary to immobilise drug traffickers and enhance the capabilities of the Police and
Customs Departments to provide for better interception. Supply reduction is a broader issue
than law enforcement, and there are many aspects of supply reduction. Legislation should be
aimed at removing all aspects of illicit production and distribution of drugs. Activities should
range from recognising that New Zealand has international responsibilities in drug traffick-
ing, to interdiction of illicit shipments and removal of important traffickers from the supply
system through long prison terms. We require more effective regulations and monitoring of
the legitimate production and distribution of drugs, such as amphetamines and barbiturates,
that can be abused or used illegally, and this is one matter on which attention should be
focused.
With the leave of the House, it was agreed that the speaking time of the Minister of
Justice be extended.
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I do not think there is any disagreement
among our 87 members that they would be equal in their abhorrence of the dreadful
trafficking in hard drugs and their anger towards those who indulge in them. The social
Services Committee, which recently studied a petition by Mr Paul Phillips of the Anchorage,
might well look at the honourable member's Bill. Having said that, I must follow the
formalities and observe that the Bill requires an appropriation, and would need the
imprimatur of the Government for passage.
I draw two points in the Bill to the member's attention for his study. The first proviso in
clause 3 implies that the importing and exporting of drugs is far worse than the production of
those drugs in New Zealand-which could occur-and the peddling of drugs within New
Zealand. I do not think that the member intended that. It appears to be illogical, because, as
the Bill is now written, a greater penalty could be imposed for importing a small quantity of
heroin than for peddling a large quantity of the drug in New Zealand. That proviso needs to
be looked at, because there may be something defective. The clause aims at adding the
proviso to section 6 (2) (a), which provides that a penalty not exceeding 14 years be available
to the court. The proviso in the Bill refers to sentences of not less than 15 years but not more
than 25 years. That proviso cuts across the aim of the section it is seeking to amend, and
therefore it needs looking at.
Clause 3 calls for a total reorganisation of the penalties set down in the Misuse of Drugs
Act. After long study in 1974 and 1975, the drugs were very carefully graded by the special
select committee and the gradings were recently agreed to by the House. If the proposal
were accepted that the maximum prescribed sentence would be 14 years for a class A hard
drug, descending to 8 years, the Bill would need to be redrafted to recognise the need to
commence the graded penalties with 25 years at the head of the list.
I should like to talk about the impact of a 25-year sentence. From his personal study the
member must have recognised that fear of detection, discovery, prosecution, and conviction
is a greater deterrent than excessive sentencing. The Misuse of Drugs Act, which amended


## p. 2142 (#598) ###########################################

2142
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
the Narcotics Act, introduced the sentence of 14 years' imprisonment. The courts have given
sentences of up to 13 years, and one sentence of 12 years was given for peddling hard drugs.
It is generally accepted that sentences of 25 years add nothing to the deterrent, which is fear
of discovery and conviction. I doubt that prison sentences of more than 7 years, whether they
are 10 or 14 years, have any effect as a deterrent. It is recognised in the Criminal Justice
Act that when a period of 7 years is nominated that is the time beyond which a sentence may
not go unless the man has been brought before the Prison Parole Board. I am sure the
member knows that the criminal law has set its face against minimum penalties as a general
principle. There would need to be a remarkable reason for insisting on a minimum penalty. I
do not want to take it very much further, because the Minister of Customs and the Minister
of Police will want to deal with the technicalities involved in the Bill-and most of the Bill is
technicalities.
I should like to make a brief reference to the suggestion that a standing parliamentary
committee should be set up. As an alternative, I suggest that there is no reason why the
Social Services Committee, which already this year has dealt with a petition on the matter,
should not have referred to it each year the annual report of the Police Department, the
Customs Department, and the Department of Health. These three departments deal not
only with drug trafficking and the enforcement of the law against it, but also with the
rehabilitation of drug addicts. I am rather reluctant to see more and more select committees
set up, certainly standing committees, because people are inclined to think that the setting
up of committees is an answer in itself. I am sure the member for Sydenham would not claim
that the setting up of a standing committee is the answer. There are means now, within the
present number of select committees, to have matters referred to the various committees
each year and reported on to the House if that is what we wish. I come back to what I said
earlier-I am sure all 87 of us share the member's abhorrence of this traffic. We all wish to
ensure that people do not suffer from the effects of it.
Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central): The Opposition welcomes the comments of the
Minister of Justice. A lot of effort goes into a private member's Bill, as I know, having
introduced a number over the years, and I am sure the member for Sydenham will welcome
the Minister's comments. The Minister intimated that the Bill might go to the Social Services
Committee, and I am sure the member for Sydenham would welcome that move.
Because of the lightness of sentencing in New Zealand, it is important that an effort
should be made at this stage to do something about the very serious problem of drugs. Every
effort should be made to take action against the hard-drug merchants who have crept in. We
must stop their activities, and this Bill will go a long way towards doing that. It will be
welcomed by nearly all New Zealanders—all except those who are offending. The Customs
Department has a very real role to play, and I am certain that the Minister of Customs will
have some comments on the Bill. For instance, I do not think we have nearly enough drug
dogs, and I am sure the Minister of Customs will have something to say on that and other
matters related to his department. If the Bill is to proceed, the Customs Department must
make an effort to obtain more dogs. There is only one dog for the whole Wellington area,
and I think there are only three or four dogs throughout the country. Very often the Police
use Wellington's dog.
If the Bill goes ahead the Customs Department must make every effort to gear itself to
stopping this serious problem. It has no launch. The Customs Department must use a police
launch or other facilities to intercept ships coming into New Zealand. Our Customs
Department must be about the only one in the Commonwealth that does not have its own
customs launch. The Customs Department must work in tandem with other enforcement
organisations. The State Services Commission is currently looking at the Customs Depart-
ment with a view to making it a one-class department. This will affect the preventive officers,
the uniformed branch of the Customs Department—
Hon. P. I. Wilkinson: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I suggest to you that the
member for Dunedin Central, in talking about the staffing problems of the Customs
Department, is going well outside the ambit of this Bill.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Surely that is relevant to the whole purpose of the Bill. It was
only an incidental remark by my colleague. I doubt whether he intends to develop it, but
surely we are not precluded from referring to a shortfall in departmental staffing that could
affect the administration that would be a consequence of the Bill.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: There is some merit in the point raised, and I am sure that the
member would not wish to pursue the argument to any great length. We are debating the
introduction of a Bill, not the merits or otherwise of the staffing arrangements of any


## p. 2143 (#599) ###########################################

12 August
2143
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
department.
Mr MacDONELL: I realise that I was perhaps a little wide, but I did think that what I
said was relevant to the measure. It is important, if we are to attack the drug problem, to
ensure that we have the facilities to stop the entry of drugs into the country, and that is why I
said we must ensure that the Customs Department has the facilities. I said that we have to
depend on various other services to supplement the services of the Customs Department. I
am sure the Minister will tell us about the various methods his department uses to deal with
this problem. I know that other members wish to speak on the Bill, but I repeat that I
appreciate the comments made by the Minister of Justice. I am sure the member for
Sydenham will accept the Minister's offer to send the Bill to the Social Services Committee,
and I am sure many points will be raised there.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): One of the most profoundly disturbing
experiences of my time in Parliament was a visit I made in the not too distant past to a young
man dying of heroin addiction in a small apartment in Newtown. His life had come to be
almost exclusively focused on the needle, and his world as well as his constitution was
disintegrating around him, and he knew it. In so far as he had any concern for the future
outside himself, it was to ask me to do all I could, and to ensure that the Government did all
it could, to remove the temptation, to remove the ability of young people particularly to get
hard drugs. The comments I am about to make on the member for Sydenham's Bill are made
in a constructive way, and he may well have answers to some of the points I make. The big
question that arises is what does the Bill provide that is not already provided or cannot be
provided by administrative as opposed to legislative means. I turn first to clause 6, “Drug
information on departure and arrival", and I would inform the member that the department
has in draft form now a leaflet for people leaving New Zealand that will set out such subjects
as overseas penalties, and the traps that unwitting travellers can fall into about usage. The
leaflet is now with the Government Printer, and it will be available to anyone who wants it. It
complements an extremely valuable little document published by the Customs Department
some years ago, and subsequently reprinted, which deals with the obvious questions the
average person would ask about drugs-their appearance and texture, their smell, the way in
which they are packed, slang terms, different grades, methods of administration, symptoms
of users, and the like. The two pamphlets taken together are a valuable form of public
information that I would prevail upon the public to use. Clause 6 also deals with arrival
documents. I refer here to paragraph (ii) of the proposed new section 30A which states:
"That penalties for misuse of drugs in New Zealand be notified in the Customs arrival
document given to passengers prior to their arrival in New Zealand." The document is
referred to as if it exists already; in fact, it does not. The passenger coming into New Zealand
uses a declaration of what he is bringing into the country, and I do not think we could
logically fit the purport of paragraph (ii) into that declaration document, but I shall be
interested to hear the member for Sydenham explain his proposal further. Clause 7 has some
real drafting and jurisdictional problems. The first part of clause 7 states: "The master of any
ship or aircraft involved in a non-schedule voyage or flight to New Zealand may be required
to send to the New Zealand Customs Department a notice. . ." It is clear why the
member used the permissive word "may" rather than "shall". If this is intended to be a truly
preventive measure, it should surely be worded more affirmatively. The effect of clause 7 is
to apply New Zealand law to people who, to all intents and purposes, are probably well
outside the jurisdiction of New Zealand. Ample advance notice is essential for this clause to
be effective. I should like to know how the member would deal with the jurisdictional
problem.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: That's the very reason why it can't be made mandatory.
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Well, I should like to hear from the member first. I should like
him to clarify whether he means that the requirement should apply to people within New
Zealand's territorial waters, or beyond. He, and I am sure other Opposition members, will
know that under the existing law non-schedule vessels must notify the Customs Department
and the police of their arrival. I am puzzled as to why there is the need to spell this out
further than it is. No doubt the member for Sydenham knows the practical problem we have
here with the growing number of non-schedule small vessels and aircraft, particularly ships,
arriving in this country. The authorities do not normally know in advance when they are
coming, and they in turn are hardly likely to tell us if they have smuggling in mind. There has
been a growing tendency for contraband cargo to be dropped overboard from a ship, and
allowed to float in to the coast. The annual report of the Customs Department reports the
recent detection of 5 kg of cannabis floating in the sea off Tauranga, the packages marked by


## p. 2144 (#600) ###########################################

2144
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
a flashing light. I should be interested to know whether the member can see a practical way
to provide legislation for that type of smuggling, which seems to be the growing way that
small craft are unloading contraband around our coast. Clause 8 deals with the payment of
rewards. I concede that being able to quote a set reward based on a percentage figure has
some advantages. One of them is that it introduces a degree of certainty into the administra-
tion of the reward system, which in my opinion is a very effective way of combating the drug
problem. Against that, complete certainty cannot be achieved, because the street value of
drugs tends to fluctuate markedly; so all we could do is to say that we relate to a certain
percentage of the street value of the drug at the time. It introduces no more than a degree of
certainty to the administration of the reward system. There could be many cases where the
authorities want flexibility; they want discretion as to whether they reward, and as to the
amount of the reward. A lot could depend on their relations with the particular informant.
They could be put into a strait-jacket if they were required to administer rewards according
to a set formula. Finally-and I am sure the member for Sydenham accepts this-it is a fact
of life that resources are scarce, and we have to ask ourselves whether the public money is
more effectively spent providing what is in effect an open-ended financial commitment here,
when the money could otherwise have gone to the purchase of extra dogs, more sophisti-
cated equipment, or something like that. The member's Bill is concerned only with
individuals who provide information that leads to a prosecution. In fact, the existing law
about eligibility is more liberal. It provides that rewards can be given to persons even when
their information does not lead in that particular case to a conviction, but it may happen to
be information that is vital in a chain of links with respect to tracking down some drug
smugglers. Clause 11 provides for the appointment of liaison officers overseas for a period of
up to 3 years in areas where drugs are likely to be a source of interest to New Zealand in view
of our trading or other links, or whatever, with that country. In fact, we already have access
to the most up-to-date information in the world through the National Drug Intelligence
Bureau, from which there is an extremely good and regular source of information. I should
like to know from the member-bearing in mind that we have to weigh up scarce resources
and where they can best be employed in the war against drugs-what extra gain he sees could
be achieved by actually appointing liaison officers overseas at considerable cost to gather
information already freely available to us through the National Drug Intelligence Bureau. It
goes without saying that this problem has to be watched all the time. It is a problem that has
to be tackled on the assumption that, as time goes by, organised crime-and therefore a
much more resourceful type of offender-is becoming much more prevalent. Over the last
year the Customs Department, among other things, has increased the strength of its
preventive service. It has increased the strength of its shifts at Auckland and Harewood. It
has used dogs extensively and effectively.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable Minister, but the time
allotted to him has expired.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): The Minister of Customs asked how notice
would be given of ships approaching New Zealand, and I suggest that the objective is to do
that by the best possible means, and by the means that are practicable within our resources.
Obviously, as to the rights of New Zealand, the Bill contemplates doing all that is
constitutionally possible to give notice in the manner suggested. I congratulate the member
for Sydenham on his initiative in introducing this most important Bill. In the relatively short
time he has been in the House he has established a reputation for taking the initiative in a
wide range of matters of importance to the nation, both socially and economically. Of all the
measures he has introduced so far, this Bill would have the most profound effect on our
future well-being. The member deserves the commendation of all people of good will for
pursuing the objectives he has declared in the Bill. It may well be that the manner of
implementation he has suggested could be modified to effect even better results. I am certain
that the member would be happy with any revision of his proposals that would enable them
to operate more effectively.
The House and the nation must be aware that drug addiction is harmful to the
individual, it promotes crime, it is socially destructive, it is destructive to health, and it is
detrimental to the economy. If Parliament and the nation are of a mind to deal with this
scourge, it is practical to do so. Other nations facing drug problems have dealt with them
determinedly and resolutely, and one nation has claimed to have completely eliminated the
problem. We are familiar with the tremendous financial help the United States is giving
countries such as Iran and Turkey to eliminate the production of drugs and to assist them to
establish economic opportunities for people who formerly derived their living from cultiva-


## p. 2145 (#601) ###########################################

12 August
2145
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
tion for drug trafficking so that they can engage in pursuits within the law which are
beneficial to their nation. I commend the United States for its work in those areas. If we
tackle problems sensibly, methodically, and effectively, we achieve results.
Earlier this year I visited the People's Republic of China with a New Zealand
parliamentary delegation. It had been claimed that drug trafficking had been eliminated in
that country, and when I asked how that had been achieved I was told it had been done by
cutting off the source of supply. That is clearly the most effective control, and is the key to
dealing with drug trafficking. The member for Sydenham wants to use all methods that can
properly be used by the New Zealand Government to cut off the source of drug supply. One
of those methods would be the stationing of New Zealand officers overseas to co-operate
with others who are working against this scourge. Although the penalties prescribed by the
law can be a deterrent, major reliance must be placed on preventing the entry of the drugs
into New Zealand.
It has been said that our country is strategically located for supply from the so-called
Asian golden triangle, and, because of our reliance on trade, the drug trafficking problem is
likely to be a continuing one. The setting up of a special select committee to deal with the
matter, as proposed in the Bill, would enable the drug problem to be constantly examined
and kept under surveillance by Parliament. The committee could make recommendations to
the appropriate Ministers, and to Parliament, about the resources that should be made
available, the strategies that should be followed, and changes that should be made to the
law. That is a sound course to follow.
I support the proposal in clause 11 that there should be an international police
appointment. That clause, which proposes inserting a new section 12A in the principal Act,
states: "The commissioner"-the Commissioner of Police-"with approval from the Minis-
ter, may appoint such narcotics liaison officers as he thinks fit for a period up to but not
exceeding 3 years to an area which appears to him to be a source of controlled drugs likely to
enter New Zealand, and his duties will be: (i) To obtain and pass on information to New
Zealand police and customs authorities concerning drug trafficking into New Zealand: (ii)
To co-operate with and assist police, customs, and narcotic law enforcement agencies of
other countries in and around South-east Asia: and, (iii) To be attached to and supported by
a Foreign Affairs post at the most suitable location to his area of operation."
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but his time
has expired.
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police): We would all go along with the motive
in the Bill, because the matter is of great concern to everyone. The drug problem is getting
worse, not only in New Zealand, but also in other countries. Because one of the problems is
the age of the people involved, we have to take pretty severe steps. I have learned of some
very tragic cases since taking over the Police portfolio, and we should do everything we can
to eliminate the problem. I shall not speak at length, because I know the Bill will be sent to a
committee, where it will have a good airing. However, I have one or two questions to ask the
member who introduced the measure.
The new provisos to section 6 of the Act, as mentioned in clause 3, state that the
minimum penalty should be imprisonment for 15 years, compared to the present maximum
penalty of 14 years. I should like to point out that in trying to influence some of the people I
have been critical of recently, I have said that penalties are available and should not be
played with. If the offence is a serious one, the appropriate penalty should be used.
Although the Bill suggests that the Customs Department should pay rewards, the police
already do this at street value.
The member for Wigram mentioned that the key solution to the problem was to cut off
supplies, as was done in China. However, one of New Zealand's problems is its lengthy
coastline, and its shipping trade with many countries. For years, New Zealand has been
trying to cut off the source of supply, but that is not easy. The public should become more
concerned about the matter, and assist the police. Recently, the Lions clubs promoted the
"Speak-up" campaign. That was a most valuable exercise, and we should try to encourage
people to help the police as much as possible.
The Bill states that the Minister may appoint such narcotics liaison officers as he thinks
fit for a period up to, but not exceeding, 3 years. What is the reason for the maximum of 3
years? During my visit to South-east Asia last year, I discussed the problem with police
authorities in Bangkok, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, and Jakarta, and made a plea to them to
assist us, because the position needs to be watched closely in ports such as Penang.
The police have trained narcotic dogs in Auckland, Christchurch, and Wellington, and


## p. 2146 (#602) ###########################################

2146
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
are contemplating putting another one in Auckland shortly. The Customs Department has
dogs in Auckland, Christchurch, Wellington, and Tauranga.
Some parts of the clause relating to the suggested parliamentary committee concern me.
We must have trained professional people carrying out the work, and must be careful that we
do not get laymen on the select committee who might try to direct the professional people on
such things as strategy for containing drug abuse. That could, in some cases, interfere with
law enforcement. I do not think the Bill intends that. Police throughout the member
countries of the United Nations are in touch with the United Nations drug control
organisations, and also with Interpol. Those organisations are very much alive on the drug
issue. The Bill will go to a select committee for further examination.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone): The member who introduced the Bill must be
heartened by the general level of acceptance by both sides of the House. He is to be
congratulated on his efforts in bringing the measure before Parliament. What he wants to
achieve, of course, is an improvement in the existing procedures and measures to prevent
hard drugs from coming into New Zealand. The Minister of Justice spoke about the
abhorrence of all members of Parliament for drug abuse. The drug scene has come very close
to most of us, and we all know of incidents of chemists' shops being broken into and of
medical lockers on boats being broken into to obtain drugs. The problem has even escalated
into some of our schools.
In his report to Parliament this year, the Minister of Police underlined the seriousness of
the problems, and pointed out that no fewer than 2639 drug offences had been reported.
That is a very large number, but perhaps there has been some levelling off. The Police report
showed a slight decrease in the number of persons charged with drug offences, but that does
not indicate that the use of and trafficking in drugs is on the decrease. In fact, the decrease in
convictions results from current policy, which tends towards the use of discretion in
prosecutions for minor offences, and a greater emphasis on apprehending traffickers, which
is the object of the Bill. The member in charge of the Bill will be pleased that it is to go to the
Social Services Committee.
I wish to speak especially to Part IV of the Bill, which provides for a special
parliamentary committee to be set up to study the provisions on a continuing annual basis.
That has a lot to commend it. We already have a precedent for a special committee of the
House in the transport select committee, which has been very valuable and worth while. It
has looked at transport problems, with particular emphasis on road safety. Much of its
investigation has led to recommendations that have found their way into legislation to
improve the road traffic scene and to reduce accidents. The setting up of a special
parliamentary committee as suggested by the Bill would give emphasis to the drug problem,
and the committee would act as a catalyst in bringing together all the agencies involved. The
committee could meet at least on an annual basis, and could report to Parliament after
getting the best possible advice from the police, from customs, and from other preventive
agents. It could also consider special educational aspects and the rehabilitation of drug
offenders, and could look at the funding of a programme to bring about the downgrading of
drugs in New Zealand, so that the Customs Department, the Police Department, and the
education authorities will have sufficient resources available to do the job that Parliament
and the country would expect.
The Government should seriously consider this aspect of the Bill, and the select
committee should have the opportunity annually to look at the whole strategy of containing
drug abuse. It could assess the current situation, and take into account the consequences to
individuals and to society generally. It could also examine enforcement procedures and the
capabilities of the Police Department and the Customs Department to provide for better
interception of drugs. The member for Sydenham mentioned the posting of customs and
perhaps police officials overseas at points where drugs are grown and distributed. That could
be a worth-while matter for the committee to discuss. The Bill gives Parliament the
opportunity to consider the matter seriously and I think that the suggestion about the
committee should be favourably received.
The Minister of Justice felt that the Social Services Committee could look at this
particular problem once a year. Certainly that would be an advance, but I make the point to
him and to the House that a special committee designated particularly to carry out that task,
in the same way as the transport committee considers road safety and related matters, would
give the matter more importance in the eyes of Parliament and of the people than if it was
submerged in the other considerations of the Social Services Committee. I know that many
members on both sides of the House would be prepared to serve on a special committee of


## p. 2147 (#603) ###########################################

12 August
2147
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
that nature. I should be happy to, for one. I hope the Minister of Justice will give serious
consideration to that suggestion.
The Minister of Justice gave more emphasis to detection than to the penalities provided
in the Bill. I agree that the certainty of detection has a very strong bearing on whether or not
a person decides to engage in a particular criminal activity, but at the same time he must
have the penalty at the back of his mind. I believe we can learn from the lessons gained
overseas, where penalties for drug abuse have been tightened up and extended. In some
areas the ultimate penalty is the execution of the offender. I do not for one moment suggest
that we go to that extent in New Zealand, but the deterrent effect of penalties is just as
important as that of the certainty of detection, and it is a matter that the member in charge of
the Bill has rightly brought to the attention of the House.
I believe his recommendations should be considered seriously. I welcome the Bill and I
welcome the general acceptance the House has given it. I also welcome the fact that the
Government is prepared to let the Bill be referred to the Social Services Committee for
further consideration. I hope the good will displayed so far will continue.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti): The member for Sydenham has taken a special interest in this
matter, and he is to be commended for drawing to the attention of the House several of his
ideas for reducing drug trafficking in New Zealand. The committee to which the Bill is to be
referred will need to consider whether the provisions set out in the measure really should
become an Act of Parliament or whether in fact they are a collection of ideas that should be
referred to the Ministers and the departments concerned and taken into account along with
other evidence in a consideration of whether they constitute improvements on existing
methods of policing. Indications have already been given by the Minister of Customs and the
Minister of Police that methods other than those set out in the Bill are being employed at
present and are believed to be effective. I believe that the clauses in the Bill, with the
exception of clauses 3 and 7, which are both operative clauses, are really administrative
matters. Clause 3 calls for heavier sentences, and clause 7 requires non-scheduled ships and
aircraft to give certain notice on entering New Zealand waters.
The first matter the select committee will need to consider is whether the title of the Bill
is appropriate. I find it a curious title and hope that the member, when he replies to the
debate, will give some background on how it came to be chosen. The reference to drug
sentencing is a little curious in itself in that it must surely be a reference to drug offenders
being sentenced. The second part of the title-the "Prevention of Misuse Act", as it would
become known-seems to run counter to the Act passed in 1975, the Misuse of Drugs Act.
So we would have two Acts on the statute book, one called the Misuse of Drugs Act and the
other called the Prevention of Misuse Act, and they would sound, at least, as if they were
mutually self-cancelling.
The main matter to which I want to direct my attention is that of minimum penalties as
set out in clause 3. Of course, that is not a novel suggestion; it is one that is raised regularly
about a number of offences in which the community becomes concerned-such as assaults on
police officers, hijacking of aircraft, and the like. However, we need to face squarely the
question whether the imposition of minimum sentences in fact creates a greater deterrent
than the flexibility provided by setting a high maximum and leaving it to the court to do
justice in any particular case. As has been pointed out, the Bill provides for a minimum
sentence greater than the maximum sentence for drug trafficking generally; so, no matter
how serious a case of trafficking in New Zealand may be, the maximum sentence the court is
empowered to impose is lower than the minimum that applies to the second offence of
importing.
The minimum set by the Bill is higher than the maximum that can be imposed for such
horrendous offences as kidnapping, hijacking, attempted murder, acid throwing, and
bribery and corruption at very high levels. Those are very serious offences, and the
committee will need to consider whether the importation of drugs alone stands above those
matters that are subject to a maximum sentence of 14 years' imprisonment and in fact should
have a minimum of 15 years. I believe that Parliament has been correct in its attitude over
the years in consistently rejecting the suggestion of setting minimum sentences as a
deterrent. There could be inconsistencies in the attitude of parole boards if one person had
been sentenced by a court to 10 years' imprisonment when there was no minimum, and
another offender had been sentenced to 10 years' imprisonment, not because the court felt
that was justified but because the law said he had to be given at least that sentence. It has
been mentioned recently, and some publicity has been given to the fact, that New Zealand
already has the longest sentences in the Western World. Against that recently publicised


## p. 2148 (#604) ###########################################

2148
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
background, one wonders whether we should set a further advance—and certainly a much
greater advance than we have ever contemplated before-in providing for a maximum
sentence of 25 years and a minimum of 15 years. A difficulty arises in differentiating between
a serious case of its kind and one that is perhaps not so serious or perhaps only technical. A
person might be caught by the narrow discretion given to the court, although the offence
committed was a venial one of its kind. Presumably a court having to impose a sentence of 10
year's imprisonment in the venial case would still not feel justified in imposing a sentence of
more than 10 years in the more serious case when that sentence, in comparison with the
sentence for crimes such as hijacking, is regarded as being a very lengthy one indeed. The
other major difficulty is whether a jury would be inclined to convict. No doubt defence
counsel would make the most of the fact that an individual, perhaps an adolescent, who was
returning to New Zealand had been caught up quite wrongly-in an illegal association and
had brought into New Zealand a small amount of controlled drugs.
Hon. David Thomson: Himself an addict.
Mr BRILL: Yes, he might be an addict himself, and he brings a small quantity into New
Zealand. If he is a person with a clean record and the jury is informed that he must be either
guilty or not guilty-there is no half-way house-and if he is guilty he will go to prison for a
minimum of 10 years, I believe the jury would be inhibited in arriving at a just decision. If
juries are left with the present situation and know that the offender can be sentenced for a
term of imprisonment up to 14 years, they realise that the judge will take any mitigating
circumstances into account in sentencing the offender. The Bill provides for a narrow
discretion, but I believe that the imposition of the minimum penalty would lead to a jury
being very reluctant to impose a conviction in cases such as the one I mentioned.
On the other matter-the imposition of a 15-year term of imprisonment on the second
offence I believe we need to have some evidence. I ask the member for Sydenham to
indicate the incidence of reoffending. My understanding is that those who have already been
sentenced under the Misuse of Drugs Act or its predecessor, the Narcotics Act, were given
fairly heavy custodial sentences. I do not know of many who have come back for a second
taste of that. Is there evidence that this is the type of offence that leads to heavy reoffending,
and therefore should be singled out as one with a very high minimum sentence?
My final point is a short question relating to clause 5, which states that in any
prosecution the street value shall be set by the Crown. It seems to me that no evidence could
be called and no guess of the prosecutor could be challenged, and, whatever the street value
set by the Crown, that shall be the value adopted by the court. That is a departure from the
mainstream of our jurisprudence. Would the member for Sydenham give consideration to
that question when he replies, or raise the matter in the select committee to which the Bill is
to be referred?
Mr LANGE (Mangere): I welcome the referral of this Bill to a select committee. First, I
shall refer to some points raised by the member for Kapiti. I agree that, on the face of it, the
provision for a minimum sentence might turn a jury from convicting. Unfortunately, the
reality is that in this area juries might be more prejudiced against an accused person by the
nature of the offending, because the jury through its various members would reflect the
abhorrence New Zealanders feel about drug trafficking. That is the concern I express about
Part I altogether. I acknowledge the strength that the argument of the Minister of Justice
must have with the House and, I am sure, with the member who introduced the Bill.
Notwithstanding that, it is possible to say that Part I provides for a system of sentencing
which, by comparison with other jurisdictions that allow hanging, shooting, or other
methods of dispatch, with or without trial, might make the proposal seem somewhat liberal.
That is the balance to be tested when the Bill is referred to the committee.
If it be said by the member for Kapiti that he has not heard of people who have
reoffended in trafficking, I can point to some spectacular examples, one of which was a
gentleman who received a life sentence for the crime of murder and shortly thereafter
indulged himself in purveying narcotics on the street. It is not necessarily so that people do
not reoffend. In fact, the recidivism rate in New Zealand is almost spectacularly high. The
committee should consider whether or not sentences do in fact deter, because the contention
I advance is that the other part of this Bill will give some strength to narcotics control. We
are not after the body, but after the prohibition of importation of narcotics that can be
harmful. That is why the reservation of the Minister of Justice about production of narcotics
is met within the Bill, because it is competent for the police in New Zealand to detect a
factory where heroin could be manufactured. To intercept heroin coming in from abroad is a
much more difficult task.


## p. 2149 (#605) ###########################################

12 August
2149
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
The House ought carefully to gauge the feeling and concern of the community-a
feeling I share, having undertaken or been present at post-mortems and inquests on clients
who have been killed by narcotics abuse, and being mindful at the same time of the
wretchedness of drug addicts. Some, in the course of feeding their addiction, will sell some of
their narcotics to others to sustain the habit. I am grateful that the Bill does not set out to
impose penalties any different from those already on the statute book for people who are in
that plight. The Bill is directed at stopping or impeding the flow of hard drugs into New
Zealand from other countries and, by implication, stopping New Zealand from being used as
a laundering place for dangerous drugs for distribution to other parts of the Pacific.
Referring to specific parts of the Bill, the question of the street value of drugs has been
raised. I see no objection to the statement that the street value means the value set by the
Crown as being the value of the drugs involved in a prosecution. It must be an incentive to
some people to get involved in the illicit narcotics traffic when they hear and read of the
value placed by the prosecuting parties on the narcotics before the court. The provision is a
good one, and the later corollary allows the Minister discretion. If I might answer the
Minister of Customs on that aspect, it is not a mandatory payment, but a discretionary
payment to an informant of a proportion of the street value, as stated by the prosecution in
the proceedings.
Regarding information on ships and aircraft arriving in New Zealand, the fact that this
will involve masters of ships beyond the New Zealand jurisdiction is not an impediment, nor
should the fact that no specific penalty is provided for breach of the requirement be taken as
necessarily bad, because precatory legislation providing for standards has been with our
society for many years. If it can be done in the Public Bodies Meetings Act, surely it can be
done in an effort to stop heroin coming into New Zealand. A strength in that broad section
might cause the Customs Department a great deal more selectivity in its rumbling of ships
that arrive on the New Zealand coast.
A sensible and useful provision in the Bill is that people leaving New Zealand should be
furnished with information about penalties attaching to the use of drugs or the trafficking of
them abroad, and, in particular, that those coming into New Zealand should be advised of
penalties for misuse of drugs within New Zealand. Would the committee, when examining
that subclause, consider whether or not it is now time for people to be given immunity from
prosecution if, on arrival in New Zealand, they elect to declare that they are carrying
narcotics in their luggage? After all, what is the mischief this legislation is aimed against? It is
aimed against the importation of hard and deleterious drugs into New Zealand. It has always
seemed anomalous that a person, asked by a Customs officer whether he has any narcotics,
should be expected to say yes, because immediately there would be an arrest and difficulty.
The committee might look at extending the provisions of the suggested clause 6 to allow
a person immunity on declaration that that material is in his possession or luggage. People
are used by internationally financially unscrupulous people to convey to New Zealand
certain goods, and they might wish to take advantage of the air fare offered, and then to
hand the goods over to customs on arrival without their being prosecuted. While this House
might not necessarily be willing to endorse such a fraud, when one considers the character of
the person furnishing the air ticket it might be something of a deterrent.
I endorse the novelty of appointing an international narcotics liaison officer, but can say
from my experience in acting for people who are slaves of narcotic addiction that the best
part of their product came from areas in South-east Asia. I believe it would be useful for the
police to extend their competence in stopping this drug traffic by having someone on the
spot. I accept from what the member for Kapiti said that perhaps the department could do
this in any event, but the people of New Zealand might believe that more is being done when
an Act of Parliament gives a mandate to the police to create such an appointment.
I do not pretend to have a competence in how parliamentary committees are established
or what they can do. While I respect what the member for Petone said, I hope that the
committee on drugs, if established, will produce a better result than did the Road Safety
Committee. I endorse that the committee ought to be set up, not to direct police opera-
tions and I appreciate the concern of the Minister of Police that that suggestion might be
implicit in the Bill-but so that members of this House might exercise a continuing vigilance.
Bear in mind that the Narcotics Act was passed in 1965, and the Misuse of Drugs Act was
passed in 1975. If this House were to have a body charged with eternal vigilance, and not
merely responding to the bait of legislation each decade, the people might be preserved from
the onslaught of narcotics into this country, which is causing such social stress. I endorse the
referral of the Bill to the committee.


## p. 2150 (#606) ###########################################

2150
12 August
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga): This is an important matter, but it should be realised that
this is not the first time the House has expressed concern about the misuse of drugs. On 28
March 1974 the Drugs (Prevention of Misuse) Bill was introduced into the House. It was
reported back in June 1975, over 12 months later. During that time the Social Services
Committee, of which I was a member, had heard 51 submissions. I am mentioning this so
that members will realise fully that there will not be many points, if any, in this Bill that have
not been thoroughly dealt with.
Various angles have been mentioned during the debate. One suggestion is somewhat
new that the Police should have rights to operate in South-east Asia-and its merit or
otherwise would require close investigation. The police brought the committee up to date on
the seriousness of drug trafficking in New Zealand and the way it is affected by the countries
of South-east Asia. It was pointed out that heroin is 12 times as potent as morphine, and that
a person can be hooked on a "smack", as it is called, after 4 or 5 inhalations or injections.
We were told about the enormous amount of money behind the trade. Authoritative sources
have stated that one of the largest exporters of illicit drugs is communist China. The outlet is
through Hong Kong, the money being paid in gold from the Western World.
There was also evidence that drug trafficking has touched our shores. The drug weapon
has been used by practically all countries. It was used extensively by Japan when it overran
China in 1937; during the war it was used extensively by the Japanese throughout South-east
Asia; and we have seen its very powerful use in South Vietnam. With this background, we
have a problem that cannot simply be pushed under the carpet, or easily dealt with. It is
ongoing, and we must at all times keep up to date with trends. I do not believe that altering
the punishment is in itself sufficient. Many countries have adopted the principle that it is not
sufficient merely to deal severely with the traffickers; they also deal very severely with the
victims. In communist China, drug victims are dealt with by capital punishment. Drugs there
are for export only, according to reports we have received.
The member for Sydenham probably realises that under the Misuse of Drugs Act the
Minister has the power to set up a committee, and in fact a committee is sitting at the
moment, so not a great deal of new material would come before a select committee.
However, as chairman of the Social Services Committee I should be glad to have an annual
review of the reports of the Police Department, Customs Department, and Department of
Health on drugs and their use. Undoubtedly that would have some merit. The Social
Services Committee has been set up more or less as a permanent committee, and it certainly
could be a permanent one. It performs functions beyond the scope of a parliamentary select
committee in that it is a specialist committee, and deals with specialist problems in this very
complex area. Most of the ground has been pretty well traversed.
The point has been made that although the Bill centres on the importation of drugs, we
are concerned about the increasing sophistication in the preparing and refining of illicit drugs
in New Zealand, and in their use. The committee would be constantly looking at that. Both
the Police Department and the Customs Department have kept a very close eye on the
problem. This Bill is an expression of the concern of the member for Sydenham, which I am
sure is shared by all members. As the chairman of the Social Services Committee I am quite
certain that all members would welcome any evaluation of the situation that would help with
the problem.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): I have been very pleasantly surprised at the reaction from all
members in this Chamber, and I am very grateful to those who have contributed to the
debate on an issue that is of concern to us all. Before I answer some of the questions that
were raised, I point out that there are many matters I thought should be covered in the Bill,
but because I was not able to do everything I decided it was more important to deal with the
subject generally.
I am concerned about, and should like the committee to take up, the matter of books
such as the one I have in my hand. A person who will make submissions to the committee is
concerned about books such as this, which tell people how to cultivate the opium poppy. It is
illegal for people to be told how to make bombs, but apparently it is quite legal to sell this
type of book in New Zealand. Among others who will want to give evidence is Dr Fraser
MacDonald, who is involved in drug rehabilitation.
This Bill generated a lot of interest in the Labour caucus, as I am sure it did in the
Government caucus and with the general public. The Opposition spokesman on health, the
member for New Lynn, was very keen to take part in the debate, but was not able to do so
because of illness. I should have liked to hear what he had to say on this matter.
Today the problem is greater than it was when the misuse of drugs legislation came into


## p. 2151 (#607) ###########################################

12 August
2151
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse Bill
the House. In November last year there was a leading article in the Christchurch Star which
stated that in the past few years the Christchurch drug squad had picked up nine alleged drug
dealers, and that heroin valued at between $300,000 and $400,000 had been taken off ships
calling at Wellington and Christchurch. It is easy to see the seriousness of the situation from
the amount of money involved in that one isolated incident, and it demands urgent
legislative attention. In his report last year the Commissioner of Police said that prosecutions
involving heroin had increased from 1 percent of all drug charges in 1975 to 6 percent in
recent months. The problem is getting very much worse very rapidly, and something must be
done about it. Drug abuse patterns similar to those in the United States are starting to show
up here, and new and stringent safeguards must be seen as one of the anti-drug priorities.
I concede that the minimum and mandatory nature of the penalties is extremely stiff,
and I take the point made by the Minister of Justice. However, this is an attempt to make
New Zealand pull its socks up in terms of the sentences being handed out by our neighbours
in the Pacific and Asian regions. If New Zealand is seen as a relatively easy market for drug
trafficking the people who are making money from it will try to move their operations here.
New Zealand must not be seen as a lesser risk for the trafficking of hard drugs. Some very
stiff sentences have been handed down under the existing law, but this matter will receive a
good airing at the committee, and is meant as a gesture of sincerity and concern.
I am pleased that the Bill is to be referred to the Social Services Committee, and I am
sure the news media will be allowed to attend the meetings when it is in the public interest
for them to do so. Information will probably come before the committee of a nature that
would make it dangerous to the people providing the information, and could jeopardise the
work of the police if it became public knowledge. I certainly believe, as the member for
Kapiti said, that the name of the Bill is quite adequate. It relates to the trafficking of drugs
and the prevention of misuse, because I think it is important that it be oriented towards
removing the possibility of misuse by removing the possible arrival of drugs into the country.
The comments made in this debate have been very supportive. With regard to the
appointment of a narcotics liaison officer, it is worth mentioning that Australia has one, and
most of America's 200 drug enforcement agents are stationed in the South-east Asia region.
On my trip to America last year, President Carter's aide on drugs and alcohol told me he
would like New Zealand to appoint a narcotics liaison officer. I understand that the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs is looking at the costing of this, and has estimated it to be about $80,000 a
year. However, I was talking to a person who has recently been to the area, and who would
be a likely choice for such a position, and he felt the cost would be about $40,000. When that
cost is compared with the recent $400,000 worth of heroin intercepted in Christchurch
recently, I think the expenditure would be justified. Our police and Customs Department
people need international experience, because, after all, they are dealing with an inter-
national problem.
The comments made by the Minister of Police were very relevant, particularly those
about our long coastline, but we must still make the effort. We are dealing with a very special
problem, which must be handled in a very special and stern way. The incidence of people
committing trafficking offences was borne out by the member for Mangere. One of the
persons involved in the recent theft of the aeroplane that crash-landed in Honiara fell into
the "second offence within 5 years" category, and it was not a matter of minor trafficking.
The police were concerned, because people known to be associated with hard drug
trafficking were involved. I do not set myself up as the authority in Parliament on drugs. I
just want to be the catalyst to bring about better legislation. At the committee stage, I shall
be very happy to accept, promote, and support any amendments that are thought necessary
by those who have the adequate amount of information.
Motion agreed to.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): I move, That the Bill be referred to the Social Services Committee,
and that the proceedings of the committee during the hearing of evidence be open to accredited
representatives of the news media, when considered by the committee to be in the public interest.
Motion agreed to.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East): When the House adjourned last night I was talking
about the rates of board for children's homes, which were increased only once by the Labour
Government-in December 1973. The National Government increased these rates in June


## p. 2152 (#608) ###########################################

2152
12 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
1976, and the Budget contains a firm commitment to increase them again in October 1977.
That is one small but very important illustration of the Government's concern for less
fortunate people. From 1 October 1977 the rates of board paid to foster parents will be
increased, as will the weekly capitation fee for children's homes. The other provisions in the
social welfare package will be implemented on 1 January 1978. These include: increases in
the capital subsidy rate for children's homes; a more flexible system of capital subsidies for
accommodation for the intellectually handicapped; a substantial increase in the capitation
subsidy paid in approved cases for children attending day care centres; and the easing of the
present provisions restricting eligibility to children who are not in day care centres full time.
The announcement that gave me the greatest pleasure, however, was that of the
proposed implementation of further sections of the Disabled Persons Community Welfare
Act, which was passed by the Labour Government but which resulted from a commission of
inquiry set up by the previous National Government. It is fitting, therefore, that this
Government should implement so many of the provisions of that Act because of the
important part it will play in the lives of people with disabled children. Since the Govern-
ment took office it has established the advisory council provided for in the Act, and the
council's priorities are now implemented in the Budget.
Section 17(1)(a) relates to capital subsidies to approved voluntary organisations such as
the Society for the Intellectually Handicapped, the Crippled Children Society, and others.
Under that section, finance can be granted toward the cost of establishing, adding to,
improving, or providing essential alterations to a home for the general welfare and
residential care of disabled persons. People working with the disabled will appreciate how
important it is that they are not put away in institutions, as they were years ago. Disabled
persons should be given the opportunity to live a normal life in the community, or as close as
possible to a normal life.
Section 13A relates to the expenses and other costs incurred during medical treatment
for disabled persons. That is not the only area where concern has been expressed for the
disabled. Provision has been made in the Budget for motorcar loans to assist disabled people
with vocational training, or for obtaining, or retraining for, employment. Provision is also
made for walking frames and prosthetic appliances to be free of charge when they are not
supplied free by hospital boards. Further areas of assistance to the disabled must be
considered. Parents caring for a disabled person or persons caring for a disabled adult should
be entitled to assistance.
This year an extra $1.4 million has been allocated to special education, representing an
increase of 18 percent over last year. I remind members opposite that last year the allocation
for special education was increased by $1.5 million. As a result of that $1.5 million I was able
to announce that a crippled children's classroom would be built in Hamilton East at a cost of
$155,000, to help some of the physically handicapped who seek further education. I note that
in this year's education package the Government has introduced a scheme to assist the
parents of seriously handicapped children who need continuing special education not
available near their homes, so that the family can move to an area where that education is
provided. That sort of humanitarian consideration for parents who, through no cause of their
own, have a disabled child must be soundly commended.
I turn now to another aspect of slightly different hue-the criticism about the tax on
beer and ciggies. Members opposite have said there was no evidence that the money would
go into community health schemes. The Minister of Health outlined how the money would
be spent on community health: Programme I, $25,000; Programme II, $2,175,000; Pro-
gramme III, $4,508,000; Programme IV, $1,560,000; Programme VI, $2,675,000; Prog-
ramme VII, $5,940,000; Programme VIII, $900,000-a total of almost $18 million for
community health. That is a true indication of the importance of community health, despite
the criticism by members opposite that it is an iniquitous tax.
The Government has a conscious interest in, and an awareness of the need for,
community services. I am conscious that there has been a tremendous increase in the
community services provided by the Waikato extramural hospital, particularly in the last 12
months. The hospital anticipates an increase of 10 percent in the number of district nurse
visits, with a 25 percent increase, or even more, in the number of patients attended in
Hamilton City. The Budget will support the five psychiatric district nurses operating from the
centre, and it will support the occupational therapist and those involved in preventive mental
health. The extramural hospital has an occupational therapist who is doing a tremendous job
in the community, and the Budget will support her work.
The 1976 figures show that Hamilton City needs an estimated 206 geriatric beds, and, as


## p. 2153 (#609) ###########################################

12 August
2153
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
193 were available, the target has almost been met. These factors must be considered when
we talk about the Health vote. There is no cause for complacency, however, because
projections suggest that by 1981 another 100 beds will be required. I shall continually push
for further assistance for accommodation for the frail, the geriatric patient, and the elderly. I
am grateful for the assistance I have received from the Minister of Housing, because, as a
result of the Budget's provisions, I have been able to announce that over the past 18 months
my electorate has been successful in obtaining $500,000 to finance pensioner housing. I am
proud to be associated with a Government that does such humanitarian work for the
country.
The city of Hamilton is grateful for another bonus from the Health vote. I have received
a brief note about the provision of teaching facilities for nurses at the Waikato Technical
Institute. The note, from a person who is very active in the nurses' association, reads: "Just a
note to say that we are delighted that further nurse training courses are to be established in
Waikato and Southland." The member for Awarua will be delighted with that; and I
mention that bearing in mind that he is unable to be in the House today. The note continues:
"I am sure that nurses trained in this way will have a much fuller understanding of the
concept of community health. Thank you for your help and support in helping us to achieve
our goals." We should bear in mind that the Budget has made this training possible.
I do not think I should apologise, but I should explain that, despite what the member for
Auckland Central has said, on 14 June I asked the Minister of Statistics, "How much would a
1c increase in the price of a glass of beer and a 1c increase in the price of a pack of 20
cigarettes add to the consumer price index?" I am not sure whether the member will regard
that as a leak in advance, but he should realise that the Government has been discussing
these provisions for some time. To talk about the only source of information being the Prime
Minister's Department is rather ludicrous.
I have said on several occasions that liquor is too cheap. We have evidence from the
National Society on Alcoholism and Drug Dependence that there is a strong relationship
between the incidence of alcoholism and the price of liquor. I have also said that I would be
happier if 10c, rather than 1c, were put on spirits, and I stand by that. An honourable
member applauds—I am pleased that someone else stands by it. I realise that the average
working man will probably scream about an increase of 1c in the price of beer. However,
personally I should prefer to see a greater tax on spirits. We will leave the beer drinker to
have his beer so long as he drinks it responsibly. A responsible drinking attitude is
important.
Mr Falloon: What about a tax on soft drinks?
Dr SHEARER: That is just not on-there are too many soft-drink drinkers around. I
mention the dangers because of the lack of awareness of a high alcohol intake. I look at court
reports in the newspapers, and I find many cases involving alcohol. Here is the case of a solo
mother receiving the domestic purposes benefit. I am not knocking solo mothers, but the
judge said, "You have been given your benefit to look after your child, not to drink
expensive alcohol." I hope this solo mother realises that her children are a darned sight more
important than the booze she is drinking. Here is another comment: "You are a poor mother
and an excessive drinker." Those comments are symptomatic of too much of our social
activity lately. In Zealandia of 31 July there is a clear warning of teenage drinking by Dr
Fraser MacDonald. Here is another report: "Animal rape linked with drunkenness." I
would quite happily see the tax on spirits increased to 10c. Here is another one-a 17-year-
old who drank himself to death. Isn't that lovely? I am delighted to see the increased tax in
the Budget, even though it is only a slight increase.
Judging by the speeches of Opposition members, many of them have not read the
Budget. I make no apologies for going back over some matters of interest to the average man
in the street. It is important for us to look at taxation, because the rebate claimed by the
breadwinner of a family with a child under 5 has been increased from $6 a week to $9 a week
on incomes up to $100. In fact, the rebate now applies to incomes up to $150. People affected
by this provision will be $3 a week better off. Furthermore, the rebate will be reduced by
only 10c in the $1 of income above $150, and will not phase out until a family's income
exceeds $240 a week.
I hope those who are listening, particularly the elderly who sit and enjoy a bit of
Parliament, will get on to their telephones this evening and tell their sons and daughters to
check to find out how much the benefit is worth to them personally in terms of a tax rebate.
Before the Budget, the most a family could earn in weekly income and qualify for any rebate
was $140. The Budget has raised that to $240. That is, a young family man with a child under


## p. 2154 (#610) ###########################################

2154
12 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
5 years can still qualify for a tax rebate even if he earns substantially more than the average
ordinary-time weekly wage. In addition, families with a child under 5 can get the new rebate
available, as a result of the Budget, to single-income families with a child under 10. This
provision applies also to widows and other solo parents with children under 10. It will be
equivalent to $4 a week.
There is more still. The existing wife rebate has been adjusted so that a wife may now
earn up to $520 a year before the rebate reduces, compared with $375 a year before the 1977
Budget. This means that the married taxpayer with a child under 5 who qualifies for both
rebates will pay no tax if his taxable income is less than $82.63 a week. I do not know
whether we have had such a position before, but before the 1977 Budget those people would
have paid tax if their taxable income exceeded $57.65. In effect, the Government has made it
possible for far more young low-income families to pay no tax at all. The tax reductions
amount to about $85 million for the 1977-78 year. Families eligible for the original young
family rebate numbered 90 000, and an additional 70 000 families are eligible for the
extended provision. In addition, 156 000 people are eligible for the new single-income
rebate. It is estimated that about 218 000 families will receive tax relief under these schemes
in 1977-78, or 128 000 more than were eligible for the original young-family rebate. Yet the
Opposition says this is a nothing Budget that does nothing for the young people on low
incomes. I take that as a grave insult to those who prepared the Budget.
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism): I compliment the member for Hamilton
East on his very thought-provoking contribution to the debate. It was so different from what
we have heard from the Opposition benches.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: You'll support the 10c on spirits, will you?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: I wish to refer particularly to the member for Nelson, who last
evening talked about the causes of inflation and completely overlooked the responsibility
that was cast upon the Labour Government between 1972 and 1975, and the way it
encouraged inflation to run rife-and the member who has just interjected was one of the
main culprits. Modal housing under the Labour Government increased by 663 percent,
urban property prices increased by 100 percent, and the cost of urban sections increased by
160 percent. Now, 18 months later, Labour members have the temerity to stand up after they
have been kicked off the Treasury benches and blame the National Government for the
inflation of which they were the instigators. Inflation is the most hurtful thing that any
country can have, and the National Government is doing its utmost to control inflationary
trends. We have to convince the people of that before 1978.
Statements have been made about the additional money that should be allocated to
health, education, and the social welfare services. Members of Parliament accept the
principle of a welfare State, but the challenge is to keep it in balance with our economy.
These are factors that obviously we have to bear in mind, and accordingly the expenditure on
health, welfare services, education, and the like has to be kept to the bare necessities.
Another feature that has come out of this debate is that Opposition members absolutely hate
our leader; they detest him. The name "Robert Muldoon" is anathema to Opposition
members. The fact that he has proved to be such an outstanding leader, and has shown such
political perception and ability to select a team to get New Zealand's economy back to a
stable level in the interest of New Zealanders, seems to upset Opposition members. They get
really carried away. It is quite amazing. The fact that our leader is a humble man is such a
pleasant contrast to the exhibition of arrogant socialism that we suffered between 1972 and
1975.
The member for Hamilton East said that, some while before the introduction of the
Budget, he asked a question about the cost of the imposition of certain taxes on alcoholic
beverages. The member for Auckland Central made a great hoo-ha about Budget leaks. I
quote from Hansard of 22 May 1975, when the socialist Labour Party was in power. I was
coming down the passageway to the Chamber, where there were two people who, to me,
looked like officials, and one said, "That will necessitate urgency being taken, and a late
night". When I discussed this with our then leader it was suggested that I ask a question in
the House, so I raised a point of order. Hansard of 22 May 1975, page 1256, states: "Mr
Lapwood (Rotorua): A point of order, Mr Speaker. I wish to ask the Prime Minister now, in
view of the confidentiality embargo on the Budget to be delivered this evening, whether he
will confirm that he proposes to take urgency to discuss certain matters pertaining to customs
duty immediately following the delivery of the Budget. Rt. Hon. W. E. Rowling (Prime
Minister): I will not confirm that at this stage." So, despite all the kite flying by the member
for Auckland Central, we could have made greater play of that more substantive leak of


## p. 2155 (#611) ###########################################

12 August
2155
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
information than ever he could in trying to substantiate the airy-fairy claims he has put
forward.
Another matter that has been discussed is the cost of national superannuation, and
the fact is that it has been implemented successfully with very moderate additional funds
being required. The total cost is $930 million, of which $165 million will come back to the
coffers of the State by way of tax, leaving a net cost of $765 million. When we subtract from
that the $598 million for universal superannuation and similar benefits paid before the
introduction of national superannuation, we have a net additional cost of $167 million. I wish
Labour members would keep those figures in mind when talking about the cost of national
superannuation, because Labour's superannuation scheme would have been costing the
taxpayers another $168 million at this stage, and about twice that amount by the time the
scheme came into full implementation.
Mr Lange: Not a cent from tax.
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: Ha, ha! It was going to come from the pay packets of the
workers, and from the employers; no socialist in his wildest moments can deny that. I am
pleased to announce, for the benefit of a section of the farming community in the Rotorua
electorate, that funding has been provided in the Budget for the commencement of the
Kaharoa rural water supply scheme. This is estimated to cost the Government about
$166,000, which will be spread over a 3-year period. The scheme has been agreed to, and I
look forward to its completion in the next few years.
I shall confine most of my remarks today to matters coming within my portfolios. The
important industry of tourism has been the subject of press comments from the Opposition's
spokesman on tourism. I want to put straight one or two comments about the present state of
the industry, and mention my hopes for its future. The National Government promised to
make tourism a top-tier industry, and although there has been a slowing down in the number
of visitors coming to New Zealand, I am sure this is temporary. In the Budget, $2.02 million
s allocated for the promotion of New Zealand overseas, and this will be done by the Tourist
ind Publicity Department throughout the coming year. I am hopeful that we will get our just
eturns from that investment.
In addition to the $2.02 million provided for the Tourist and Publicity Department,
private entrepeneurs, together with Air New Zealand, Mt. Cook and Southern Lakes
Airways, and the National Airways Corporation, are extensively advertising abroad. For
many years, the New Zealand tourist industry has maintained an exceptional growth rate
well ahead of the world average, both in visitor arrivals and in the foreign exchange earnings
therefrom. The world patterns are encouraging. Although the United States visitor intake
suffered a decline in 1975—which I believe reflected the economic conditions-there has
now been a notable recovery, with a rise of about 18.5 percent in the total number of visitors
to the United States during 1976. For the May year, New Zealand earned $162.5 million in
overseas funds from tourism-which is a considerable increase on the $143 million earned in
the 1976 March year. A greater promotion has been undertaken to encourage New
Zealanders to travel in the off-peak tourist season.
Mr O'Brien: Tell us about the fall-off from Australia.
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: I will tell the member about the Australian scene. We have
increased our promotion in Australia to try to encourage more visitors from that country.
Investigations have confirmed the desirability of establishing a travel office in Canada, and I
am hopeful that this will be achieved during the next 12 months, thus giving New Zealand
official representation in all its principal tourist markets.
The member for Island Bay referred to Australian visitors to New Zealand. Although
there has been some pessimism about the downturn in the number of visitors from Australia,
which for the year ended 31 May totalled 218 496—a reduction of 5.6 percent on the previous
year-it should not be overlooked that that number is nearly 40 000 more than the number
forecast at 1 April 1973. It is difficult to explain that extraordinary growth. In 1973-74, there
was a 35 percent increase in the number of Australian visitors compared to the previous
year; a further increase of 24.9 percent in 1974-75; and an 8.5 percent increase in 1975-76.
We must regard the total number of visitors from Australia as very satisfactory, although the
phenomenal growth rate in 1973-74 and 1974-75 cannot be expected to continue. The most
recent statistics on Australians travelling overseas during the month of February indicate
that, apart from one or two minor exceptions, the total number of departures to all
destinations has dropped. As the number of visitors to those destinations numbered no more
than a few thousand, New Zealand is therefore just one of many countries not being visited
by Australians in the same numbers as in the previous year. Despite this, New Zealand is


## p. 2156 (#612) ###########################################

2156
12 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
intensifying its tourist promotion in Australia, and, as I said earlier, the increased allocation
to the Tourist and Publicity Department is already being applied to maintain New Zealand's
competitive position on the Australian travel market.
The total number of visitors to New Zealand to 31 March 1977 was more than 380 000,
or only 4300 less than the previous year. The most recent figures to the end of May indicate a
satisfactory increase of 8.3 percent in the number of visitors from the United States. The
number of visitors from Western Europe has increased by 17.6 percent, and from Japan by
19.4 percent. The only market showing a decline is Australia, which is down by 5.6 percent.
The number of visitors from North America, Western Europe, and Japan has shown a very
satisfactory growth, particularly in the months of April and May. Indications are that that
trend will continue. A quarter of a million New Zealanders have travelled overseas in the
past year an increase of 3.3 percent. Coincidentally, the number of visitors from New
Zealand to Australia-112 800-was down 3 percent compared with last year. I feel that the
Australian market is sound, and that we will have a continuing good response from our
promotions there. Unfortunately, in May we had the Australian air traffic controllers' strike,
which disrupted the flow of tourists from both New Zealand and Australia-it is estimated
that between 10 000 and 12 000 visitors had their travel arrangements affected. I trust that in
May 1978 the progressive pattern of previous years will be maintained.
Recognising the desirability of conserving overseas funds and the importance of
expanding travel by New Zealanders within their own country, a very imaginative campaign
has been launched to promote travel by North Islanders to the South Island and vice versa.
Television commercials have formed the basis of the campaign, with specific incentives in the
form of discounts offered by some 28 tour operators, hotels, transport companies, and
souvenir shops. A revised tourist accommodation development scheme was introduced in
September 1976. The original scheme had proved most successful in helping to overcome
shortages of tourist accommodation in key areas during the period of the previous National
Government from 1962 to 1973, when the scheme was cancelled by the Labour Government.
It is interesting to note that during that period the TADCO scheme supplied finance or
guarantees for 3253 beds. The money involved was just on $4 million in cash advances and
$10.5 million in guarantees. The revised scheme has been introduced, and several applica-
tions have been lodged for accommodation in the Auckland area. One is well advanced with
its planning, and appears to meet the TADCO criteria. It appears that about 200 extra rooms
could be constructed in the Auckland area within the next 18 months to 2 years. I have
recently announced the establishment of a Tourist Advisory Council, and of four committees
to serve it. I am delighted that all those who have been asked to serve on the council have
graciously consented to do so. I look forward to serving with them in the coming months,
and have every confidence that they will make a very worth-while contribution to the
development of tourism in New Zealand.
The Tourist and Publicity Department has broken new ground in the motivation and
attitudinal surveys that it has carried out in the past 12 months. Australian and North
American holiday visitors have been examined as to their range of motivations and attitudes.
The information from the studies has been made available to the tourist industry, particu-
larly those concerned with promotion and marketing, so that they can carry out their
activities in overseas markets with maximum effect. Interestingly enough, the studies show
that personal communication with friends, relatives, and travelling New Zealanders is a
decisive factor in helping visitors to decide whether or not to come to New Zealand. Visitors
generally have high praise for our New Zealand way of life, our scenery, and our tourism
services. Most people questioned were particularly satisfied with our tourism facilities.
Provided that advantage is taken of the incentives offered by the Government for the
development of accommodation and other tourist facilities, and given healthy economic
conditions in our main tourist markets, there is a firm expectation that in 1978 the overseas
earnings from tourism will be more than $200 million.
Tourism is thus in the course of becoming established as a first-tier industry, in
accordance with the Government's election promise. Interestingly enough, last year we
amended the Tourist Hotel Corporation Act, and it is very gratifying to know that the
corporation has enjoyed a very successful year. I compliment the board of directors and the
general manager on their very fine performances.
Richard Walls: We have got rid of the red tape.
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: Yes, we have, and the corporation can now progress unfet-
tered. The fact that the corporation's profit increased by 241 percent last year was very
'pleasing indeed. The corporation has spent $3.3 million during the past 12 months on


## p. 2157 (#613) ###########################################

12 August
2157
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
extending and upgrading its facilities, and we see a very encouraging story in the general
progress made by all hotels run by the Tourist Hotel Corporation. Further additions are to
be made at Waitangi and Mount Cook, and I am hopeful that I will be able to make
pronouncements about them in the not-too-distant future. I also hope that the Tourist Hotel
Corporation will shortly be able to announce the marketing of some condominiums at
Wairakei, which it is hoped will be built on the site of the old hotel sections. I consider they
have such an imaginative plan that the public will be very pleased to participate in their
ownership.
Mr Rogers: Tell us about Queenstown.
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD: Queenstown is in good heart. We have carried out the policy
we put before the electors, and we have disposed of most of the Queenstown properties.
I turn now to the information and publicity services. Here again New Zealand is being
well served by the officers of my department, and I know that the excellent service provided
will continue to benefit New Zealand as a whole. The information and press section, through
the press officers assigned to Ministers, is also doing an excellent job. In the export publicity
field, it was very pleasing to see recently that the trade promotion in Singapore was well
publicised. I compliment those officers who were privileged to assist in that promotion. The
Kiwi Trade News is also doing an excellent job, particularly in South-east Asia and the
Arabian Gulf States.
The Tourist and Publicity Department, with its general oversight of visiting journalists
and the information they are able to give visitors to New Zealand, does much to promote our
tourist attractions. In the year to 31 March last, 60 overseas journalists were associated with
the department, of whom 36 had financial help. They represented 22 countries. The National
Film Studios are another facet of the Tourist and Publicity Department. They, in their turn,
are also doing an excellent job. They have had a very busy year, and have assisted in the
promotion of the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Tourist and Publicity Department. Many
members of the House saw the special film produced for that celebration. The Avalon
complex is nearing completion, and I am hopeful that the film studios will transfer from
Miramar to Avalon early next year, and that the complex will be fully occupied by mid 1978.
The Budget presented this year is a good one. It is a hold-the-line Budget, and it is
appalling that Labour socialist members should condemn its good features. After all, the
provisions contained in the Budget are to repair the wreck left by the socialists when they
were kicked out of office in 1975.
Debate adjourned.
The House adjourned at 12.50 p.m.


## p. 2158 (#614) ###########################################

2158
16 August
Personal Statement
TUESDAY, 16 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
PERSONAL STATEMENT
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): Mr Speaker, I seek the leave of the House to make a personal
statement.
Mr SPEAKER: Is it the pleasure of the House that leave be granted?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): Naturally we have no objection to a
personal explanation, but if it is a personal statement it is usual to indicate the subject when
requesting leave.
Mr SPEAKER: The point is properly taken. Once or twice lately we have had requests
without an indication to the House of the subject on which the explanation is to be given.
The member may care to say in two or three words what it is about.
Mr KIRK: It concerns a remark I made during a debate last week.
Mr SPEAKER: Is it the pleasure of the House that leave be granted? There appears to
be no objection.
Mr KIRK: During the heat of a debate in this Chamber some days ago, I made a remark
by way of interjection that reflected on the head of the Prime Minister's Department.
Unfortunately, some newspapers in reporting my interjection gave it undue prominence. As
this may have caused distress to a highly placed and respected public servant, I wish to
express my regret, and to apologise unconditionally to the individual concerned and to the
Public Service that serves the country irrespective of the political character of the Govern-
ment.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
South Africa-Rugby Players
1. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Has he
personally contacted the rugby footballers who intend accepting an invitation to play in
South Africa in order to present to them the Government's responsibilities arising from the
Gleneagles decision, and, if not, does he intend to make a personal approach to the players
involved?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs): The answer is no.
Hon. W. W. Freer: Is it not the Government's responsibility, as announced by the Prime
Minister after the Gleneagles meeting, to make its opinion known to sporting bodies and to
individuals?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: During the last 20 months, and especially since the
Gleneagles agreement was announced, so much attention has been focused on this subject
that I find it impossible to believe that there is an individual sportsman in New Zealand who
is not fully aware of the contents of the agreement and the implications of the decisions
sportsmen are likely to make.
Hon. W. W. Freer: As the Minister is on record as saying that it would be necessary for
the Government to contact sporting bodies, has there been a change in policy? Are sporting
bodies no longer to be kept informed?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: If the member had bothered to read the newspaper he would
know that my colleague the Minister of Sport and Recreation has written to every sports
body in New Zealand—every national association-sending them a copy of the Gleneagles
agreement. That is what the Government said it would do, and that is what it has done.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Does the Minister know that the Australian Government, which
was also a signatory to the Gleneagles agreement, has approached the Australian footballer,
Paul McLean, and asked him to reconsider his decision, and does he not think it appropriate
that the New Zealand Government should take similar action?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I am fully aware of the action taken in Australia. I am
equally well aware of the fact that there is no country in the Commonwealth where so much
space and discussion has been devoted to this topic as in New Zealand-so much so that


## p. 2159 (#615) ###########################################

16 August
2159
Oral Answers to Questions
some of the Commonwealth Heads of Government did not know that the federation cup
matches were being played in Britain while the Commonwealth Heads of Government
conference was being held.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: As the Minister has expressed personal regret at the decisions
made by some of the people approached, is he not underestimating his powers of persuasion
by failing to follow up that regret with further action?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: It is not a question of underestimating my powers of
persuasion but of recognising the fact that if there is a conscience in the country it has
expressed its view.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Clutha Development
2. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Works and Development: What
percentage of the work budgeted for the Clutha development in this financial year is to be
carried out by private contractors on either a plant-hire basis or a tender basis?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): Funds allocated to the
Clutha development works for the 1977-78 financial year total approximately $13 million, of
which $7 million has been provided for the expansion of Cromwell. It is expected that 52
percent of this year's expenditure will result from contract work, and 6 percent from the
hiring of plant. The provision of goods and services to the project will require another 9
percent of the allocated funds.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Air Traffic Controllers, Auckland
3. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked Minister of State Services: Is it correct, as
reported in the Auckland Star of 29 June 1977, that 600 days' holiday were then owing to air
traffic controllers at Auckland International Airport, and that the only way of remedying
this was to transfer officers from secondary airports to Mangere, and, if so, what action has
been taken in the meantime?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services): It is correct that a substantial
accumulation of leave has accrued to air traffic control staff at several airports. At Auckland
it is estimated that in excess of 600 days' leave will remain untaken at the end of November
1977. This situation is caused primarily because of a decision by the State Services Tribunal
in May 1976 on a claim by the Public Service Association, which gave an additional 8 days'
annual leave each year to all qualified air traffic controllers, and the introduction of a revised
shift cycle that increased rostered time off by 16 days a year. The extra leave was made
retrospective to 9 July 1975, creating a very large accumulation of leave at all airports. The
transfer of staff from secondary airports is not the only way of remedying this. This is not a
satisfactory solution to the problem because of the time required to give training in the
different procedures applicable to the major airports and centres, and to validate ratings.
The most effective answer lies in the recruitment of additional manpower. In December 1976
the Government authorised an increase of 23 staff for this purpose, but a normal air traffic
control cadet requires 3 years' training before being ready for full operational duties. The
training capability and capacity of the Ministry of Transport is at present fully extended. It
may still take up to 12 months to clear the present backlog of leave. However, I am satisfied
that all possible measures are being taken to enable as much leave as possible to be taken,
and that the transfer of secondary aiport staff to major units is unlikely to become necessary.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: If the amount of leave accrued at the end of November will be
more than 600 days, does that mean that it is increasing at present, and the problem is
gaining momentum rather than being reduced, and how many additional staff will be
required to make the impact on it that will get rid of all the accumulated leave within the year
forecast by the Minister?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: It is correct that 600 days will be accrued by the end of
November, and it will probably continue to accumulate until such time as the extra staff
becomes available for Auckland. I understand-and it is a cursory answer; I hope the
member does not hold me to it—that 8 extra staff are required at Auckland to change the
rosters and allow them to catch up with the leave over a relatively acceptable period.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: What is the overall figure required to reduce the total arrears for
all airports, including the secondary ones?


## p. 2160 (#616) ###########################################

2160
16 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The original answer stated that 23 have been recruited and are
now being trained.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Birth Statistics
4. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What was the
percentage of ex-nuptial births per live births in 1956, 1966, and 1976; and what was the
number of adoptions in 1956, 1966 and 1976?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): The percentages of ex-nuptial births
to live births in each of the years 1956, 1966, and 1976 were 4.58 percent, 11.57 percent, and
17.42 percent respectively. The number of adoptions in each of these years was 832, 3462,
and 2942 respectively.
Mr Cooper: How many couples want to adopt babies now?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I cannot give the exact number. The department's practice is to
close off the waiting list when it is expected that applicants wishing to adopt infants cannot be
satisfied within a period of 2 years.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
ASEAN Countries-Aid
5. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert), on behalf of Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay), asked the
Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is the $50 million aid project for the ASEAN countries
announced in Kuala Lumpur by the Prime Minister additional to existing aid?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs): What the Prime Minister
indicated was a forward commitment of $50 million over the next 5 years to finance new and
current aid projects in the ASEAN countries. This will involve the continuation of our
current bilateral projects such as the geothermal project in Indonesia and the undertaking of
new worth-while projects bilaterally with each ASEAN member country and with the group
as a whole. It will also include the new regional projects for ASEAN countries that will be
developed in forestry and animal health.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: How much of the $50 million aid project is provided for this
financial year, and what projects have been reduced to accommodate it?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: The total this year for the ASEAN countries and for the
ASEAN group will be about $9.1 million.
Mr Hunt: Could the Minister indicate how much of the $9.1 million was allocated for
the ASEAN countries before the announcement was made by the Prime Minister in Kuala
Lumpur, and, if the answer to that is none, will the $50 million be spaced into the next 4
years?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: What the Prime Minister indicated was the total forward
commitment over a period of 5 years-this year and 4 more years.
Mr Hunt: That's public relations. There's nothing new about it.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: What is certainly new about it is that the group has an
indication at least 4 years in advance, or 3 years in advance, of the total to be distributed in
the area.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Would the Minister answer the latter part of my question, which
was what projects and what aid has been deleted to accommodate the $9.1 million this
financial year?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: Reductions have been made in individual countries this year.
That is simply a statement of fact; there is no secret about it.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Which ones?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: Reductions have been made in each country of the ASEAN
group. It was made clear when an indication was given of the total aid programme this year
that there would be a continuing concentration of aid in the South Pacific, and that has been
done. Obviously, with no increase in the overall aid, that has meant a transfer of resources.
Hon. Michael Connelly: In view of the implication in the Minister's answer that it was
desirable that those receiving aid should know in advance of grants, does the Government
propose to apply the principle of extending grants on a 5-yearly basis to other key areas?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I did not talk of the desirability, but of the fact that it was
new.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2161 (#617) ###########################################

16 August
2161
Oral Answers to Questions
Regional Development-Suspensory Loans
6. RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
What were the votes for, and the expenditure of, suspensory loans in the years 1975-76 and
1976-77, and what was the percentage of expenditure in relation to the vote in each year?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development): For the year ended 31 March
1976 the vote for suspensory loans was $4,277,000, and expenditure under the item was
$2,594,000. The percentage of expenditure in relation to the vote for 1975-76 was, therefore,
61 percent. For the year ended 31 March 1977 the vote for suspensory loans was $3,230,000,
and expenditure under the item was $1,867,700. The percentage of expenditure in relation to
the vote for 1976-77 was therefore 58 percent. The allocation for suspensory loans in 1975-76
and 1976-77 was underexpended because of a more cautious approach by business to new
investment.
Mr MacDonell: What was expended on freight subsidies out of the provision made for
regional development in 1975-76 and 1976-77, and what is the projected expenditure in
1977-78?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I should be very pleased to provide the honourable member with that
information if he would be good enough to ask another question. Obviously, the question
does not seek elucidation of the answer to the question posed by my colleague the member
for Dunedin North.
Mr Marshall: In view of the underexpenditure mentioned by the Minister, could he
confirm that some of the restraints placed by him on regional development expenditure last
year have now proved to be unnecessary, and that this is borne out by the fact that some of
the restraints have been removed in this year's Budget?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: I cannot agree with the proposition advanced by the member for
Wanganui. Last year the Government was presented with the very real problem of trying to
solve the runaway Government expenditure which had been allowed to occur under the
previous Government. The expenditure for regional development, like all other departmen-
tal votes, had to be carefully studied to see where savings could be made. The qualifications
placed last year were to emphasise the true priorities for regional development. It was
possible, in this year's Budget, to remove some of the restraints placed last year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Inflation-proofed Bonds
7. Mr KIRK (Sydenham), on behalf of Mr ROGERS (Onehunga), asked the Minister of
Finance: Does the Government intend to use funds raised through the proposed inflation-
proofed bonds for the same purposes as funds from the New Zealand superannuation
scheme were used before its abolition?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): Investments in the proposed
inflation-adjusted savings bonds will be used to help finance the broad range of capital
investment undertaken by the Government. The pattern of this investment would not closely
resemble that undertaken by the New Zealand Superannuation Corporation, because the
Government's investment priorities would not be the same as those adopted by that
corporation.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Telephone Exchange, Massey
8. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Postmaster-General: Could he indicate
when the temporary exchange to be located at Massey is expected to come into operation?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): It is planned to bring the temporary
exchange at Massey into service about August or September 1978.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: What is the present waiting list, and what effect will the temporary
exchange have on that list?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: As at 11 August, 728 applicants were awaiting service. The
capacity of the exchange will be 1600 lines, which more than takes care of the existing
waiting list.
Mr D. J. M. Jones: As the exchange is a temporary one, what long-term proposals does
the Postmaster-General have for people in the Massey area?
20 Vol. 412


## p. 2162 (#618) ###########################################

2162
16 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: It is planned to install a much bigger permanent exchange with
a capacity of more than 6000 lines.
Mr Hunt: When?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: Early in the 1980s. The residents of Massey can be assured
that those who will meanwhile be using the temporary exchange will in no way have an
inferior service.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Road Transport-Heavy Motor Vehicle Licences
9. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he indicate
when the new annual licence fee that will form part of the new system of taxation for heavy
motor vehicles, as mentioned in the Budget press statement No. 40, will be introduced, and
when will he be consulting the road transport industry about the implementation of this new
measure?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): Budget press statement No. 40
stated that the new package of heavy vehicle taxation would be introduced in three annual
steps from 1 April 1978. The new annual licence fee included in the package will be
introduced on 1 April 1978. I am currently engaged in discussions with the Road Transport
Association, and further discussions will be taking place between that association and my
officials. I intend also to consult with the Transport Advisory Council and others connected
with transport in the package mentioned in the Budget.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I am aware that the Minister met Road Transport Association
representatives this morning. Was agreement reached in this discussion, especially in view of
the Minister's answer to my question that the package would be implemented from 1 April
1978, and that the extension of the road-rail limit as announced in the Budget would come
into effect from 1 October?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I am always delighted to help the honourable member.
Although I met the Road Transport Association representatives for an hour this morning,
the main discussion centred on the removal, from 1 October, of what is commonly called the
40-mile limit. The honourable member should know that the road taxation package comes
next. However, I can tell him that we did briefly discuss this matter, and that the association
will shortly be making submissions.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I am afraid the Minister did not grasp the second point of my
supplementary question. If the package is to come into effect from 1 October, how can it
apply, when the taxation to which the Minister referred will apply from 1 April? What will
happen between October and April? Will it be open slather?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The honourable member said that I did not catch on to
his question, but I think the reverse is the case. As an ex-Minister of Transport, it should be
perfectly clear to the member that the mileage restriction will be removed from 1 October.
Mr Bruce Barclay: It will be open slather.
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Does the honourable member not understand that
legislation will be introduced before 1 October? The taxation part of the package will come
into force from 1 April next. Although legislation will need to be introduced this session, it
does not have to be until later. The immediate urgency is for legislation to be introduced and
dealt with by 1 October.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Beef Exports to America—ANZUS Talks
10. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade: Did the recent
ANZUS talks, during which it was agreed that trading opportunities on the American
market were a prerequisite to New Zealand's ability to play a full part in the alliance, lead to
firm commitments to provide improved access for New Zealand beef exports into America?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Overseas Trade): At the recent ANZUS talks
the United States recognised that in order for New Zealand to trade its way out of its current
economic difficulties and thus play its full role in the ANZUS alliance it was necessary to
have stable markets for its agricultural exports. However, the talks did not cover any specific
trade commitment.
Mr Elworthy: Will further talks take place soon about continuing commitments?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: There have already been discussions with the United States


## p. 2163 (#619) ###########################################

16 August
2163
Oral Answers to Questions
authorities at an official level, as there have been official discussions in a number of other
countries.
Mr Bruce Barclay: Were there no discussions during the ANZUS talks about the
commission's possible recommendations to the Senate about beef imports to the United
States?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS: I have already indicated that there were no discussions on
any specific trade commodity. What Mr Warren Christopher indicated was an attitude which
has been reflected at official level in discussions that have taken place between United States
and New Zealand officials.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Police Numbers
11. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Police: In view of an article in the
Dunedin Evening Star of 25 July reporting him as stating at the National Party conference
that it was planned to "increase the police force by 150 this year", would he explain where
provision is made in the estimates for this planned increase?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Police. The whole question of additional police staff-uniformed members and civilians—is
currently being considered, and a decision on total staffing for the year can be expected quite
soon. In the meantime, in order to fill the intake into the training college later this month,
the Government has given approval to the recruitment of an additional 44 police personnel.
Once the staffing position has been finalised, consideration will be given to the provision of
the necessary finance.
Mr Christie: Can I take it that the finance for the increase will appear in the
supplementary estimates this year?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I assume so, but the decision on finance has not been taken,
and will not be taken until the staffing position has been finally dealt with.
Mr Hunt: When the Minister was reported in the Dunedin Evening Star as saying that
he planned to increase the police force by 150 this year, can we take it from the answers to
the two questions asked by the member for Napier that the words "this year" referred to the
financial year as opposed to the calendar year?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: Any decision on increases in any of the State services usually
refers to the financial year.
Hon. Michael Connelly: In view of the concern about crime expressed by the Commis-
sioner of Police, and by the police service organisations, does the Government not intend to
increase the total police strength by more than 150 this financial year?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: I repeat my first reply, that the whole question of additional
police staff is currently being considered, and a decision on total staffing for the year can be
expected quite soon.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State Rental Houses-Whangarei City
12. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Housing: How many State rentals
are available for letting in Whangarei City?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): The Housing Corporation currently
administers 709 rental tenancies in Whangarei City.
Mr Hunt: How many of the 709 tenancies that the Housing Corporation operates in
Whangarei came into being as new tenancies this year?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I cannot say, because we are part of the way through this
year. This year's construction programme at present is 15 houses, in addition to which 43
houses have been taken over from the New Zealand Electricity Department and will be used
as State rental houses.
Mr Hunt: The Minister said that 15 houses had been taken over this year in the new
building programme. Is that an increase or a decrease on the last 2 years?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I did not say they had been taken over. I said they were on
the programme for this year. I can give the honourable member the completion figures:
1975-76, 20; 1976-77, 33; and this year, if we count the programme, plus those taken over
from NZED, 58.
Hon. W. A. Fraser: How many of those on the waiting list for State rental accommoda-
20°


## p. 2164 (#620) ###########################################

2164
16 August
Oral Answers to Questions
tion in Whangarei are assessed as having an immediate housing need?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: The number of urgent applications held in Whangarei as at 30
June this year was 67.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Contractors' Plant
13. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Is
he aware that approximately 35 percent of contractors' plant is lying idle, and, if so, what
proposals are in hand to utilise this waste of resources?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development): I am aware that such a
claim has been made, but I am in no position to verify its accuracy. I am also aware that this
is the season of the year when, because of adverse weather and working conditions, plant
utilisation is always at its lowest. I am further aware that successive Ministers in both
National and Labour Governments have repeatedly warned contractors of the dangers of
overpurchasing. Despite these warnings, some contractors continue to acquire excessive
amounts of new equipment. Nevertheless, the Government has taken measures to make
more work available, and the recent Budget relaxed restrictions on local authority loans for
water supply, sewage treatment, electrical reticulation, hospital works, stormwater, and
natural gas reticulation works. The financial allocation for irrigation and rural water supply
schemes has been substantially increased, and considerable contract work will be available
on the multi-million dollar Upper Waitaki and Clutha hydro-electric projects.
Hon. R. L. Bailey: In view of the Minister's answer that some contractors are
overequipping themselves with plant, could he indicate the extent to which this is taking
place?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I am not in a position to indicate in a general way, but I can say
that one contractor has placed an order for six pieces of machinery totalling $1.8 million,
which equals the total amount spent by the Ministry of Works and Development on plant
replacement programmes for a whole year. I can further indicate that when the department
had a sale of used machines in Mangere a month ago, contractors bought equipment to the
value of a further $250,000.
Mr Cooper: What restraints are being imposed by the Minister on his own department's
purchases of machinery and hiring of staff, in order to allow the private sector resources to
be more fully utilised?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: In keeping with Government policy, restraints have been placed
on my department, and a reduction in the total amount of machinery purchased this year as
compared with last year has been carried out. I think that the total expenditure for New
Zealand of $1.8 million speaks for itself.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that a higher proportion of contractor's plant and
equipment has been idle this year than is customary?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG: I have no relative figures, but I have told a previous questioner
that this is the winter season of the year, when the use of contractors' machines is at an all-
time low. I have indicated to the House that the Government's policy, as outlined in the
Budget, will give increased work to contractors in several centres.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Northland Community College
14. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Education: What is the progres-
sion for the introduction and establishment of the Northland Community College?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Education. His answer is as follows: "The Northland Community College Council will be
constituted by Gazette notice to be issued shortly. I expect the new council will hold its first
meeting during October and appoint the principal, who should take up his appointment
before Christmas. Arrangements are now being made to advertise the positions of principal
and registrar on behalf of the new council. Other new posts will be advertised at the
appropriate time. Negotiations for the transfer of the existing staff of the senior technical
division of Whangarei Boys High School to the staff of the new college should commence in
the near future. The new community college is to be formally established on 1 April 1978."
Mr Elliott: Can the Minister indicate the expected rate of progress with the first stages
of the building contract next year?


## p. 2165 (#621) ###########################################

16 August
2165
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: The Minister of Education has supplied information about
the existing buildings and new buildings to start this year. The new buildings to start this year
are: a four-bay workshop block for motor engineering fitting and turning apprentice trades;
additional relocatables for additional administration and teaching space, and a temporary
library; an ablution and boiler house; and a caretaker's house. The new workshop block is
not expected to be completed until the latter half of 1979, and in the meantime some
apprentice classes will continue to be located at the Whangarei Boys High School.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Non-container Ports-Trade
15. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Transport: What discussions have
been held, and with whom, to increase the volume of trade through non-container ports?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): I have taken every opportunity to
encourage member lines of the New Zealand European Shipping Association to utilise the
non-container ports. However, it must be appreciated that such decisions are ultimately
made by the lines themselves on commercial grounds. In addition, the harbour boards
themselves are actively promoting their ports both within New Zealand and overseas.
Mr Isbey: If there is a shift in trade from the container ports to the non-container ports,
will this mean a decrease in the volume of container operations?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: If there is a shift to the non-container ports, of course it
will. There is only so much freight, and if there was a diversion of trade it would not go
through the container ports. Two studies are currently being undertaken by the Ministry of
Transport, one being a survey of coastal shipping and the other being an assessment of the
effect containerisation is having on non-container ports, with particular reference to the
reduced flows of wool through those ports. I repeat that I have no way of directing shipping.
I do have powers of persuasion in this matter, but they are not as great or as effective as the
powers of persuasion of the president of the Labour Party in the selection of candidates.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! Our Standing Orders are explicit, and they do not provide for
sarcastic quips of that sort in answering questions.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: In view of the drastic reductions in conventional shipping to
secondary ports, as revealed by the wool shipping schedule recently announced for 1977-78,
is the Minister saying that the Government's endeavours to maximise trade to secondary
ports have been a complete failure?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do not think that is indicated. The honourable member
is talking about the wool survey. As I see it, a remarkable change in shipping is now taking
place, and I hope that it will result in more use being made of the secondary ports. I made a
similar statement about a year ago, and I do not think too much emphasis should be given to
the report to which the member referred. In addition, the adjustment of rail freight has had a
marked effect on coastal shipping as we know it.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Health Centre, Manukau City
16. MARILYN WARING (Raglan), on behalf of Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa),
asked the Minister of Health: What is the present position regarding the establishment of a
health centre in Manukau City?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Health. The present position is that consultant architects have just been commissioned to
undertake the design planning of the health centre, and negotiations are currently being
carried out by the Ministry of Works and Development to acquire a site adjacent to the city
centre.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Nash Papers in National Archives
17. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui), on behalf of Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt), asked the
Minister of Internal Affairs: Why has access to the papers of Sir Walter Nash, held by the
national archives, been refused to students and others wanting to use them for serious
research or study?


## p. 2166 (#622) ###########################################

2166
16 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs): Although national archives has Sir
Walter's papers in its custody for safekeeping, it does not have control of them. Under the
terms of his will, control of access to the papers remains with his trustees and advisory
trustees. When the papers were deposited in national archives the trustees granted exclusive
access to the papers to Sir Walter's biographer for a period that has not yet expired. In the
memorandum of agreement at that time, they indicated that access should continue to be
restricted for at least 10 years—that is, until 1980-with the proviso that this period could be
extended to 1990, so that the papers can be properly sorted and recorded. On archival
grounds, the chief archivist strongly supports the view that the task of appraising, arranging,
and describing this vast collection should be undertaken before general access is allowed.
Most researchers who have expressed interest in working on these papers have accepted this
view.
Mr Marshall: Can the Minister confirm that an arrangement was made with Professor
Sinclair whereby, during the period for which he was responsible for compiling the
biography, he was to be consulted on requests for access to the papers, and that this
arrangement does not appear to be operative now?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: My department is not aware of any such arrangement, which
would naturally have been made with the trustees. I accept the member's word that such an
arrangement was made, but the matter has never been discussed with me.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Am I to understand from the Minister's reply that any restriction
binding on the body he referred to is not compulsory but arises simply as a result of a private
agreement made by it and Professor Sinclair, which could be abrogated by both parties if
they agreed?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: I believe that is correct. We have actually asked the Crown Law
Office for an opinion on the matter.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Adjourned debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs): I have heard many expressions used
to describe the 1977 Budget. I shall call it a common-sense, caring Budget. I believe the
Prime Minister approached the Budget as a paternal GP, diagnosing the causes of our
economic troubles, coming to grips with the symptoms, and endeavouring to alter as gently
as possible the course the economy is taking, rather than resorting to panic measures or
indulging in major surgery. I call it a caring Budget because the Prime Minister has cared for
the single-income families, including widows and solo parents, by providing a new $4 a week
tax rebate for single-income families with a child under the age of 10. That shows his
understanding of the position the parents of young families are in at present.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: And I suppose you call that compassionate?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: I believe it proves that the Prime Minister is compassionate, as
members on this side of the House have always known him to be. It is also a down-to-earth
Budget, underlining the fact that no one owes New Zealand a living, and that we must work
our way out of our present difficulties. It is a reminder that our future prosperity depends
largely on three factors: (1) a growth in our export production; (2) world demand for our
products; and (3) access to world markets.
World demand and access to world markets is largely beyond New Zealand's power and
influence, but the Prime Minister and his deputy have had considerable success in opening
new markets over recent months, and by hard work, greater efficiency, and planning, we can
expand our export production. Worth-while incentives have been given in this Budget to
encourage greater production, but in the final analysis it rests with our farmers, our
manufacturers, and our workers to make the extra effort needed for us to work our way out
of our economic troubles. That is the challenge in the Budget, and I have faith that New
Zealanders will respond to that challenge. I want to confine my remarks on the Budget to
matters that affect my portfolios, but before doing so I should like to say how pleased I am
that the inflation-adjusted savings bond scheme has been introduced, and how gratifying it is
to the many friends of the member for Piako, who has been advocating this type of bond for
many years.
The Budget shows the determination of the Government to come to grips with some of
the most troublesome aspects of local government finance. The tax rebate and the rates
rebate speak for themselves. The tax rebate for rates on owner-occupied homes gives $15


## p. 2167 (#623) ###########################################

16 August
2167
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
million in the first year, and coupled with the rates rebate, which will continue and will
amount to $8.3 million this financial year, it will give relief to ratepayers of more than $23
million. I hope the tax rebate is but the first step. Assistance to urban transport has been
very well received, and the director of transport in the Auckland Regional Authority said he
was delighted at the Government's moves. This is the second major area of assistance in the
urban transport sector.
The bus replacement programme, which is estimated to cost $50 million over the next 5
years, will be of tremendous help to urban local authorities; $6.8 million, and a further
$500 000 to assist smaller local authorities and private operators, will be given in this
financial year. I was pleased to hear this announced at the weekend. This assistance has been
directed primarily to the main centres where urban transport losses have become a matter of
major concern, but provision has also been made for the participation of the smaller centres.
I applaud that. Direct assistance from the Urban Transport Council will be given once the
council is established.
I should like to refer to interest rates, because the Budget increases the maximum local
authority interest rate from 94 percent to 10 percent. Increased rates for shorter terms have
since been fixed to assist the Local Authorities Loans Board. The intention behind these
moves is to help maintain the supply of money on the local authorities loans market, which
needs it so very badly. The relaxation of the Local Authorities Loans Board's general
determinations will also have marked effects. These are the restrictions relating to the raising
of loan money for essential works, of which the following have been removed: water supply,
storage, or reticulation; sewage treatment or sewage reticulation; electrical reticulation;
hospital works, subject to approval having been given after 22 July by the hospital works
committee and the Minister of Health; storm water reticulation or prevention; and natural
gas reticulation and installation. Removing these restrictions on the raising of loan money
will have quite a considerable effect on the money that will be available for the essential
elements of local bodies' works programmes, and coupled with the rise in interest rates it will
certainly help to overcome the major financial problem facing them at present.
I should now like to refer to local government generally, because besides the financial
moves already enumerated, there have been major developments in relation to local bodies.
As Minister I have strengthened the consultative processes of the Territorial Local Govern-
ment Council. Municipalities and counties are, through the efforts of their associations, now
taking practical steps to bring urban and rural interests closer together. Representatives of
catchment boards are now meeting regularly with the Territorial Local Government Coun-
cil. All these moves are in response to the Government's initiatives in bringing about a more
co-ordinated and effective system of local government through co-operation and assistance.
I should like to discuss briefly major legislation affecting local government that will
come into the House in the next few days. I shall be introducing the first instalment of
legislation designed to update and consolidate the Municipal Corporations Act and the
Counties Act, and other legislation relating to local government that is presently tucked
away in other Acts, in order to codify and simplify and bring into one Act all the major law
relating to the conduct of territorial local government. This Bill will not deal with the poll
provisions affecting local body reorganisation, which I know are of considerable concern,
but I give an undertaking that these will be looked at in a separate exercise in the very near
future. Coupled with the new Town and Country Planning Bill that my colleague the
Minister of Works and Development will be introducing shortly, and the current revision of
the Public Works Act and a proposed water bill, this legislation will bring local Government
legislative measures into line with today's requirements.
I should now like to say a word or two about the regional schemes under the Local
Government Act. The Local Government Commission is currently bringing down schemes
in order to establish united councils or provide regional groupings of local authorities for
essential functions such as civil defence, and such other functions as the region's needs may
dictate. These schemes are marked by progressive and responsible co-operation among the
major local authority associations, which are moving with the Government towards the
establishment of a better relationship between the two arms of government. With the co-
operation of the local authorities these regional schemes should be completed by the end of
the year.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: How are they being received?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: Generally well; there is the odd spot where we are having a little
trouble, but I am certain that once these authorities have submitted their objections to the
Local Government Commission it will be prepared to alter the regional schemes to fit in as


## p. 2168 (#624) ###########################################

2168
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
far as possible with their wishes. My wish all along has been that the Local Government
Commission will be flexible in its thinking.
I now wish to refer to gaming and racing, because within the next week I shall be
introducing a Gaming and Lotteries Bill. I am hopeful that it will bring a breath of fresh air
into what is presently an archaic and anachronistic body of law dating back to the conditions
prevailing in the nineteenth century, and perhaps even further. I know this will be welcomed
by the courts, the legal profession, and also the general public, which is confused and
worried about the present outdated laws. I also intend to introduce a Racing Amendment
Bill to deal with some necessary changes to the 1971 Act. This will give some recognition to
the greyhound racing industry. The Bill will introduce the concept of a restricted totalisator
licence for greyhound racing, and for racing and trotting if they wish to use it.
Relief of 0.5 percent on all on-course investments was given to racing and trotting clubs
in the 1976 Budget. This was well received, and the Government will continue to give
consideration to further taxation relief when economic conditions are right. On the recom-
mendation of the New Zealand Racing Authority the number of totalisator permits was
increased by 33, 21 of which went to trotting clubs and 12 to racing clubs. The trotting clubs
in particular were very appreciative of those extra days.
The allocation in the Budget to recreation and sport was the same as last year, but the
grant from the Lottery Board of Control has been increased from $250,000 to $400,000, so in
effect the Council for Recreation and Sport receives an additional $150,000 this year. The
council could use more money for this important social programme, but it has accepted the
difficult economic conditions and has agreed to make the best use of what it has. While
assistance for the major recreation facilities is not possible, more money is being spent on
developing school facilities for community use, and in my visits to those schools I have been
most encouraged at the work that is being done. National recreation and sports organisations
will receive $800,000 this year, and members will be interested to know that about half the
amount allocated last year was used for coaching schools and the like. I am pleased to see
that more cultural organisations are beginning to use the recreation and sports scheme, and
on the local level more cultural groups are now applying to and receiving recognition from
their local councils. Later this year a booklet on recreation will be published, which will
present some ideas and methods to help local authorities determine their needs and establish
their priorities.
I should now like to spend a few moments on sporting contacts. All sportsmen in New
Zealand, and in fact all New Zealanders, will have greeted with relief the very sensible
statement drafted at Gleneagles. New Zealanders do not like being pilloried as "racist”, and
we are the last of all people to justify such a label.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Used to be.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: And we still are. Perhaps the member for Timaru feels he can
speak for New Zealanders. I believe that I know the sportsmen of this country much better
than he does, and I know they feel as I do when I say that we do not deserve this racist label.
We must now hope that we will get fair play, and if the Commonwealth community decides
on a code of conduct on race relations, including sporting contacts with racist countries,
those rules will apply equally. Recently I feared that New Zealand would receive special
treatment and would be required to meet tougher criteria than that applied to other
countries. I am pleased that it now appears that our friends in Africa, including Mr Ordia,
appreciate the fact that this Government does not support apartheid and will apply the terms
of the Gleneagles declaration fully and fairly, but cannot and will not interfere with the basic
freedom of citizens. I congratulate the Prime Minister for the part he played in bringing this
about during his recent visit to the United Kingdom.
The Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council has been granted $2.2 million this year, which is
an increase of 18.9 percent on last year's grant, and with the additional sum that has been
made available recently represents the minimum the council said it needed. It gives me
considerable pleasure to be able to announce that the requirement set by the council has
been met. With the grant of $50,000 for the establishment of the Council for Traditional
Maori and Polynesian Arts and the $50,000 for the regional community arts councils, the
grants to the arts have been increased by 21 percent this year. No other vote has received a
bigger increase, and that is why it is most annoying for me to hear groups such as Downstage
complaining about this "niggardly" Government. I believe the Prime Minister and the
Cabinet have been very generous in the allocations made to the arts. During its election
campaign the National Party promised to give more recognition and support to Maori and
Polynesian arts, and the amount allocated in the Budget represents a very significant


## p. 2169 (#625) ###########################################

16 August
2169
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
commitment by the Government. I ask the people involved in the arts to be realistic. In these
times of economic difficulty the burden must be shared by the whole community, and the
arts must accept their proportion of that burden.
The allocation of $50,000 from the Lottery Board of Control to establish a special
council for traditional Maori and Polynesian arts is a very important development, and has
been very well received by the Maori and Polynesian people. If steps are not taken quickly
much of the traditionally orally transmitted cultural material will be lost, and the pro-
grammes to be adopted by the new council will need to be carefully considered and given
sufficient resources. I strongly believe that the State should not be the only major patron of
the arts. The Government should not have to go it alone, and it is important to encourage a
greater level of patronage from individuals and companies.
I received a report recently from the Arts Council recommending that the levels of
taxation exemption be raised, and I am pleased that the Prime Minister has increased the
amount of deductible donations for charitable and cultural purposes from $200 to $375. I
hope he might be able to increase those still further, but on behalf of the people interested in
the arts, I thank him. The Arts Council's working party on taxation is considering further
related matters. It is clear that our laws do not encourage the level of benefaction that exists
overseas. Gift duty, estate and death duties, and sales tax are all fields in which some
alteration to the tax laws might encourage the arts. I believe the idea of an arts development
foundation is well worth consideration.
I also believe that we should look seriously at a feature film industry. This morning I saw
the film Solo produced by Toni Williams, which I believe is the first New Zealand feature
film with a true New Zealand flavour, and I am confident it will succeed on the overseas
market. Local production has shown a marked growth with Blerta's Wild Man, Sleeping
Dogs, and TV1's production on the life of Sir George Grey. But there is a lack of co-
ordination, and we find several productions using the very limited resources of skilled
personnel and finance at the same time. A film commission could be a means of providing
more resources and better co-ordination. My department has almost completed a report on
the future development of the industry, and I shall be discussing this with my colleagues
shortly.
Last year the Government set aside $50,000 from lottery profits for the emergency
conservation of art works. This is only one of the many fields in which the nation's ability to
conserve its past is inadequate. Buildings, historical records, shipwrecks, costumes, Maori
artefacts, and old films are other fields where resources such as personnel, facilities, money,
and the necessary knowledge are in short supply. I intend to look into these matters so that
recommendations can be made to the Government when the economy allows.
Most members are interested in lotteries, and I shall now make a few comments about
them. The policy of constantly reviewing the Golden Kiwi lottery ensures that profits are
sufficient to help many worth-while organisations that rely on the proceeds. To meet public
demand, last year the Government introduced the $1 Golden Kiwi Jackpot Lottery, which
proved to be an instant success. The Lottery Board of Control, which is responsible for
lottery profits, is confident that a healthy increase of profits will be available next year for
community organisations. Four distribution committees were set up under the Gaming
Amendment Act 1962, and receive annual allocations. The four committees invest in
medical research, scientific research, welfare of the aged, and welfare services, and care is
taken to ensure that grants made in these areas do not conflict with the Government's
funding. The committees supplement that funding by enabling research to be undertaken,
and provide services that would not otherwise be available. The Lottery Board of Control
also makes a grant to the Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council, the New Zealand Historic Places
Trust, and the Litter Control Council, as a supplement to the Government grants to those
organisations. The lottery board regularly funds the water and mountain safety councils and
makes an annual contribution to the recreation and sports programme. I have already
referred to the funds being given this year for the community use of schools scheme. The
board also funds the cultural facilities scheme for the capital cost of theatre and auditoria
equipment. I recently had the good fortune to open two art galleries, which are a credit to
their cities.
Mr Lithgow: Name them.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: The two magnificent galleries are in Palmerston North and
Napier.
Mr Harrison: Hawke's Bay.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: The gallery is domiciled in Napier. The galleries are appreciative


## p. 2170 (#626) ###########################################

2170
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
of the funds they have received.
Mr Christie: From the Labour Government.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET: From both Governments. The member will appreciate that I
mentioned the support from the Labour Government when I opened the Napier gallery.
From the brief description that I have given, members will realise that the Lottery Board of
Control puts its funds to very good use in supplementing other funding in important
community activities, and our quality of life would be poorer if this sort of funding were not
possible.
Last year New Zealanders invested $15 million in national lotteries. Of this amount
almost $8 million was returned in prizes and $3.2 million was distributed by the Lottery
Board of Control. This amount represents a little more than $1 per head of population. The
demand for larger and more attractive national lotteries has been shown through the success
of the Golden Kiwi Jackpot Lottery, and will be further met later this year when a lottery
with a $500,000 first prize will be introduced. If the lottery is a success, and I confidently
predict that it will be, it is possible that it will replace the $200,000 first prize sweepstake
lottery that has been run on horse races in the past. Those lotteries were conducted four
times a year.
I have previously mentioned the possibility of a $1 million first prize lottery to raise
funds for a specific national purpose. Members will know that the Golden Kiwi's competitor,
Tattersalls, recently conducted two such lotteries, which attracted strong support from New
Zealanders. I am sure that the House will agree that profits from national lotteries should be
retained within New Zealand, and not go into the consolidated funds of overseas Govern-
ments. When appropriate I shall seek the Government's view about conducting a $1 million
lottery. The Golden Kiwi Jackpot Lottery, the proposed $500,000 lottery, and an annual $1
million lottery would mean a net investment of less than $2 a year per head of population. I
mention that for the benefit of church groups that write to me condemning gambling. As
Minister I see that the money is being put to good use. New Zealanders should be allowed to
have this little flutter; one should take into account the fact that more than $3.2 million was
distributed to very worth-while causes. I hope that New Zealand will have even more and
better lotteries in the future to support those worthy causes. I had hoped to discuss the
wildlife service of my department, because it is the most dedicated and hard-working section
of the department. Unfortunately my time has expired, but I do want to place on record
acknowledgment of the dedicated work done by the officers of that department, and my
grateful thanks for what they are doing to preserve our wild life.
RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North): I congratulate and thank the previous speaker,
the Minister for the Arts, for the personal and ministerial interest he has shown in the arts in
Dunedin, and particularly the Regent Theatre project of the Otago Theatre Trust. The
people of Otago appreciate the encouragement he has given and the grants that have been
made in the past, and look forward to further grants this year. I also pay tribute to the late
Peter Fleming, an entertainer and well known constituent in my electorate who contributed
much to the Dunedin community. Mr Fleming was very proud of his Scottish heritage, and
brought to radio and television, as well as to the stage, particularly in Otago and Southland,
a warm breath of humour that will be sadly missed with his untimely passing.
I turn now to the Budget, which spells out a message for New Zealand that the Labour
Government failed to tell the people when it was in office. The terms of trade have turned
right against us. It should now be clear that we must earn our living abroad in a world where
huge energy surpluses make it difficult for small countries like New Zealand to pay their way
and where we face tougher trade barriers against agricultural produce. The Budget sets clear
objectives in the face of continuing uncertainties in the world economic situation. It spells
out the necessity for New Zealanders to live within their incomes, for New Zealand to live
within its income, and that we must earn our living efficiently, both at home and abroad. If I
were to sum up the Budget in one word I would say that, apart from outlining national
objectives, it has a regional emphasis and deserves the title, "a regional Budget".
The National Government came into office in 1975 firmly committed to strengthening
the regional development programme by placing firm emphasis on the development of
regional resources. The Government also promised to continue the previous Labour
Government's policy of incentives, which were directed largely at manufacturing industries
in the form of regional maintenance. The inherited programme was retained and examined
closely. This examination revealed fundamental weaknesses, which could be expected to
show themselves after an initial period. Those weaknesses included a failure to come to grips
with the underlying causes of regional development problems; and the approach was largely


## p. 2171 (#627) ###########################################

16 August
2171
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
one of treating the symptoms without treating the real ailments and a failure to reconcile
regional and national policies, and in particular a failure to take account of the severe
economic conditions the country faced and the need to reassess the regional development
incentives along with other policies.
Some changes were made to the existing programme-changes that were necessary in
view of the economic conditions. In the first full financial year of the National Government,
$5.27 million was voted for regional development under the Trade and Industry vote. This
was $1.16 million more than the Labour Government spent in its last year in office. It
covered suspensory loans, freight subsidies, railways unit rate, and the cost of running
regional development councils. It is not commonly understood that regional development
suspensory loans are intended to encourage new investment in plant, equipment, and
buildings, that they are interest free, and in essence are written off after 5 years. This
emphasis on investment has not changed. Every application is judged on its merits, including
the employment opportunities it will create and the degree to which local resources will be
used. No restrictions have been placed by this Government on the number of loans
available, although the maximum for any one loan is set at $100,000, which experience has
shown to be sufficient for most applicants.
Last year Otago took $367,200 in suspensory loans, 21.44 percent of the total for New
Zealand. Our neighbouring friend, Southland, took $432,360, representing 25.25 percent.
Southland was one of the four areas to receive increased advances, the other three being
Wanganui, the East Coast of the North Island, and Marlborough. Despite accusations, there
have been no restrictions on the number of loans available through the Development
Finance Corporation. Otago received 16 loan approvals from that source, a number almost
identical to the number of approvals given during the last 2 years of the Labour Govern-
ment. The 16 companies received $2.64 million.
It should be pointed out, however, that financial assistance from the Development
Finance Corporation does not always suit a company, and regional enterprises continue to
draw finance from the private sector with the full encouragement of the Government. The
reduction in total advances from the suspensory loans scheme and the Development Finance
Corporation simply reflects a lower level of economic activity resulting from our adverse
terms of trade and the economic mess that Labour landed us in. In this situation it was
entirely appropriate for business investors to adopt a stance of cautious optimism. It is also
the reason for the $4.19 million for regional development in the Trade and Industry vote this
year. Expenditure in the boom year of 1974-75 was only $4.97 million, and of that nearly
$500,000 went to the ill-fated Matai Industries. Given the current level of economic activity,
it is reasonable to assume that there will be sufficient funds this year for those who seek
regional development finance, but the councils know full well that the Cabinet will provide
extra funds in the supplementary estimates if they are needed. Only muddled socialist minds
would suggest that businessmen and entrepreneurs who take risks should ask for loans
simply because they are available—an arrogant socialist philosophy, as my friend the
Minister of Tourism would say.
Recently a Labour Party conference discussed socialism, which was described by the
party's leader as one great something-or-other step backwards. About the same time a
Japanese fishing vessel off the Canterbury coast pulled up a prehistoric monster. The skipper
took one look at it and said, "Overboard!" And he took one great bloody big splash
backwards.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! As I have explained before, I do not want the great Australian
adjective to become common coin in this House. The member, from what he said a moment
ago, clearly shows that he remembers that indication. Therefore, he was transgressing
consciously when he reintroduced the adjective.
RICHARD WALLS: I am sorry, Mr Speaker-I meant to substitute another word. The
presence of the prehistoric monster, both at the conference and on the fishing vessel, would
have contaminated the rest of the fish.
Both Governments have preferred an investment commitment by regional manufactur-
ers. For Otago the freight subsidy scheme has been the most visible form of regional
assistance. Labour promised at the 1975 election that it would continue the freight subsidy
scheme, but it did not disclose the criteria, or its intention to review the subsidies. It was
subsequently revealed that the main criterion was to give industry a breathing space during
which it could rationalise production and become efficient in its regional location. However,
the breathing space was never defined. The election undertaking to continue the subsidies
was not put to the test. Before the election the Otago and Southland manufacturers claimed


## p. 2172 (#628) ###########################################

2172
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
that Labour saw the subsidies as an instrument of inefficiency; and other sources added that
the subsidies were not a preferred form of assistance as they were administratively untidy.
Experience of the freight subsidy scheme during the 3 years of the Labour Government
revealed some interesting facts. First, three recipients ceased operation in the region, despite
the subsidies. Five companies' freight subsidies lapsed when they failed to apply for renewal,
and eight companies relinquished their freight subsidies in favour of suspensory loans. The
review also showed that, although distance from the market place was a common problem,
its effect varied considerably and freight cost as a percent of sales was very light in some
instances. Quite startling was the fact that some companies had a profitability record ahead
of the national average, and thus a subsidised advantage over their competitors even though
those competitors might also be at a regional disadvantage in relation to markets. The review
of the freight subsidy scheme and its continuation by the National Government recognises
that in the meantime the problem still exists for certain regional industries serving the
national market. While a statement in the 1976 Budget indicated that the general aim was to
phase out this form of assistance, a flexible attitude to renewal applications has been
adopted. Sixteen renewal applications were made, about half of them after considerable
personal urging by officers of the Otago Regional Development Council and the Otago
Manufacturers Association. Five companies have had their subsidy continued in full for 3
years, and eight will receive it on a diminishing basis for 3 years. Of the two immediate
terminations, one is under appeal to the Minister and the other has opted for a suspensory
loan. An assurance has been given, and is repeated, that if a company cannot be helped in
any other way the Minister can extend the range and the percentage of the subsidy. That
assurance was backed by the Prime Minister when he addressed the annual meeting of the
chamber of commerce in Dunedin last year.
The 1976 Budget confined the scheme to priority areas of Otago, Southland, and the
West Coast. In the first year of the National Government, Otago received $621,628, or 97.24
percent of the total payment for this form of regional development assistance. That was
$220,628 more than the payment made in the last full year of the Labour Government, and
honoured a promise given by the National Party during the 1975 election campaign. In
addition it is calculated that Otago received $146,500 in unit rate assistance through the
Railways Department. Advances by the Rural Bank to the agricultural sector increased in
number, and by almost $2 million to $11.73 million. Forest planting for the first full year of
the National Government increased from 2239 hectares to 2312 hectares in Otago, and a
similar programme is expected for the current year.
In Dunedin and its immediate environs such enterprising firms as Shacklock, Christies,
Brugger Industries, Modern Caravans, Irmo Engineering, Mosgiel, and Bayley Tompkins
have expanded. The increased employment opportunities being provided, however, are
largely uncommented on. We have heard the member for Dunedin Central talk about
closures, and he named three as being due to lack of regional development assistance. The
fact is that the AB Consolidated and St. George companies were both in receipt of regional
development assistance.
The AB Consolidated closure came in March 1976, less than 4 months after the election.
This firm was in receipt of regional development assistance in the form of a freight subsidy. It
has also been offered a suspensory loan of $160,000 to redevelop in Dunedin, but it chose
instead to use plant and buildings it had in Christchurch. That on the face of it was a
reasonable commercial decision by those who contributed the large amount of money at risk.
The reasons for the closure were spelt out to the member for Dunedin Central in a letter he
received from the company on 10 March 1976. The suspensory loan was offered on 11
August 1975 by the member for Dunedin Central, who was then the Under-Secretary to the
Minister of Trade and Industry, yet in March 1976, when the closure came, he blamed the
Prime Minister and his senior colleagues for a lack of understanding. He must have known
the background even before it became public. He certainly knew of the freight subsidy,
because he was in charge of administering the scheme. He must have known of the offer of
the suspensory loan, because he was in charge of that, and it was still available under the
National Government. The relevant comment was passed by the chairman of the Otago
Regional Development Council, who told the member for Dunedin Central that he was
talking a lot of rot.
More recently it was announced in Dunedin that the long-established St. George factory
would close. The member for Dunedin Central recently read out in the House a sentence
from a letter sent out by this company, but what was the exact context? The part he read
was, "Nevertheless, we would be less than frank if we did not admit that continued rises in


## p. 2173 (#629) ###########################################

16 August
2173
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
freight rates have made it increasingly difficult to remain competitive in the main North
Island market." But put that in its context, and it reads something like this: "Our company
has never used Government freight subsidies either as a basis for our original decision to re-
establish the factory or to justify its continued existence. Nevertheless, we would be less than
frank if we did not admit that continued rises in freight rates have made it increasingly
difficult to remain competitive in the main North Island market. Another disappointing
feature of our operations has been the yield of Central Otago crops of apricots over recent
seasons, which has left us struggling to get sufficient raw material for production as there is a
lack of alternative fruit and vegetables which can be economically canned and sold from the
area.'
99
Mr D. M. J. Jones: That's a different light.
RICHARD WALLS: That is a different light, as the member for Waitemata says, and
the company was quite justified in saying that these changes could cost up to $1 million, and
in that situation they were not justified. St. George was not at any more of a regional
disadvantage than the Wattie group in Hawke's Bay, but that industry has firmly based itself
on the development of natural regional resources. There was certainly no lack of regional
development assistance for the St. George company; it received a full freight subsidy for 3
years, and this had been renewed, although on a reducing basis. It has been offered other
regional development assistance by the Otago Regional Development Council, but, in spite
of numerous contacts by the executive officer of the council, it would not give commitments
to stay in the region. What was the truth of these two closures? It was simply that no amount
of regional assistance could hold them. It had no significance when plant and buildings were
finally worn out and the risk of further investment had to be weighed.
There was no reason to knock the Government, but the saga of doom casting by the
member for Dunedin Central was to continue with the closure of another factory, AHI
Metal Container Co., whose major customer, as it turned out, was the St. George factory.
So a reasonable decision was again taken, but this time it was pointed out that this company
is part of a nationwide group, AHI Company, which is expanding in other manufacturing
operations in the Dunedin area. So what happened? The announcement was made; and the
member for Dunedin Central could not resist the opportunity. He said, "Since National took
office the regional development programme has been reduced to tatters." But the director of
the Otago-Southland Manufacturers Association said, "It was not caused by lack of regional
development incentives." Nothing more needs to be said, but in the end all three decisions
did not depend on regional development factors or any lack of assistance; they were simply
judged on their viability. The point is that the member for Dunedin Central, the Labour
spokesman on regional development, was not interested in the people who faced employ-
ment problems; he was interested only in rushing to the news media to put out a string of
irrelevant clichés to gain political points and create a fear of impending doom.
If we look at Dunedin and Otago, export earnings on a population basis are 50 percent
above any other centre on average, with more than eight companies each earning over $1
million in overseas exchange. Firms such as Christies are expanding into world markets.
Irmo Engineering received a suspensory loan to put in a boring machine-that should
impress the Labour Party's research unit. Shacklocks is expanding on its Mosgiel site.
Modern Caravans is expanding on the southern endowment. Bruggers, a new industry which
will employ 100, is situated in the electorate of the member for Dunedin Central. First
export tents have been sent from a Mosgiel firm. “Thriving business eyes export market”,
states a newspaper headline. The member for Dunedin Central was told by the chairman of
the Otago Regional Development Council that he should make sure of his facts before he
tries a vote-catching attack on regional development in Otago.
The other night the member for Dunedin Central said that regional development in
Otago had been extended by the Labour Government to the manufacture of 1100 insulated
containers for the New Zealand Shipping Corporation. It is true that the Labour Govern-
ment placed a contract for the supply of those containers, but the contract was placed in
principle, subject to further investigation. It was not until 22 January 1976 that the contract
was confirmed at a total of nearly $8 million, on April 1975 prices. I think we can share the
credit for that. I am pleased that he has pride in the quality of work in manufacturing those
containers. He shares it with those involved, and with the city.
He also mentioned a contract for road service buses. This contract is interesting
because, in the House and outside, the Government has been attacked for the removal of
railcars in various parts of the country. If the member is entitled to take credit for the
placement of the coach contract, he must also accept the announcement made by the then


## p. 2174 (#630) ###########################################

2174
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Minister of Railways, the member for Heretaunga, on 3 November 1975 that the Labour
Government had decided to defer any further expenditure on new rail passenger services,
that, while it had been his aim to introduce new passenger trains on most routes then served
by railcars, the purchase of trains was preferred because of their versatility; but he went on
to say that any purchase would involve heavy overseas expenditure, and, much as he was in
favour of improving long-distance passenger services, it was necessary for him to conclude
that, in view of New Zealand's sustained overall buying requirements, the purchase could
not proceed at that stage. The Minister commented that he had often found it necessary to
refer to the deteriorated condition of the railcar fleet. Here is the crunch for all those who
said that the buses had not been ordered to replace railcars: "To cover possible breakdowns
on the railcar services, Mr Bailey said he had taken steps to purchase additional road motor
coaches."
Mr D. M. J. Jones: When did he say that?
RICHARD WALLS: That was in a ministerial press statement on 3 November 1975, just
before the election. So if it is claimed, and fairly claimed, by the Labour Opposition and its
spokesman on regional development that the placing of the coach contract was regional
development, they must also accept that the phasing out of railcars and their replacement by
these excellent buses being built in Dunedin was due to its policies in Government and not
the policies of this National Government. It did not end there, because there was a little bit
of socialism in this press statement: "At present we are looking at planning for the
construction of new passenger coaches that can be built in our own workshops, commencing
with modest proposals based on the availability of skilled staff." That is the socialist
philosophy. The Labour Government was preparing to take the work away from private
enterprise-the coachbuilders in Dunedin, where it was claimed to be regional
development-and put it into the railway workshops. We could go on and talk about some of
the things that invited rejection, but I hope the House now understands exactly what the
situation is.
We in Dunedin are proud of our human skills, our investments, and our achievements,
and are grateful for the incentives and the assistance provided by the Government. What has
this Government done for regional development? Shortly after the election, it defined
regions to ensure that assistance was directed according to a region's needs. It set the
regional development councils the early task of identifying worth-while development oppor-
tunities in their regions through comprehensive resource surveys. Yesterday the Otago
Regional Development Council released a very well researched resource survey.
The important point is that that survey was carried out by the people in the region, who
have investigated their own resources, set their own priorities, and can now talk to the
Government, to each other, and to entrepreneurs, with a document which lists all the
advantages and some of the constraints applying to the development of the region. The
Holmes task force on economic and social planning was quickly established, and identified a
lack of administrative co-ordination as a major weakness in setting policies. As a result, the
New Zealand Planning Council was established, with Sir Frank Holmes as its chairman. As
members well know, the council is already working on long-term policies, especially those
connected with regional development, and will provide the secretariat and the co-ordination.
In its first Budget the National Government introduced a new regional development
investment allowance. Otago was designated a high-priority area, giving its manufacturers,
its fishermen, and its farmers moving into the export market a 5 percent advantage over their
competitors in lower-priority areas. The export incentives were increased following the
devaluation last year. Multimillion-dollar loan finance has been provided for the Port
Chalmers container terminal, which will be opened by the Prime Minister on 10 September.
Provision is made in this Budget for the introduction of the new pioneer status incentive
scheme, a new approach which provides additional capital assistance for qualifying expendi-
ture on new commercial resource development in priority regions.
The regional development councils are fully involved in assessing the advantages and
the use of this new scheme. The establishment grant scheme will make contributions towards
commercial feasibility studies, commercial development, and initial or pilot production in
marketing costs of manufacturing and processing projects in areas such as Otago. Together
with the pioneer status incentive scheme, it implements the specific proposals outlined in our
manifesto, and will give regional development councils a major role in highlighting the
development potential of their local resources and sorting out their priorities in conjunction
with the Government.
I said that this was a regional Budget. Profit sharing applies at the regional level in a


## p. 2175 (#631) ###########################################

16 August
2175
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
very important way, as does the shift work depreciation allowance. The new export incentive
rewards will be applied to total exports, and not just to increased exports. As I mentioned
before, those Otago companies moving into the export market will be able to take advantage
of the incentives provided in the Budget. The investment taxation incentive, which gives the
Otago priority region an advantage over other regions, will continue. The suspensory loans
for fishing boat construction-so important to the industry at Port Chalmers, which is in my
electorate the special fishing boat loans, and the fishing boat ownership savings schemes,
are all applicable within Otago and my electorate of Dunedin North. Also to be introduced is
the transport freight differential policy, which will finally ensure the efficient use of our
present resources, and will give South Island, and especially Otago manufacturers, some
advantages in getting their goods to their markets.
The Budget made nearly $200,000 available for Dunedin City's urban transport. The
grant to the business development centre has been increased by $25,000-admittedly it was
reduced last year, but it was also reduced every year during the period of the Labour
Government-to the unprecedented level of $35,000, thus recognising the important role the
centre plays in regional development and business. I predict that it will act as the Dunedin
office of the Development Finance Corporation, and will work with the corporation in the
Small Business Agency being set up by the Government.
I welcome the other regional development provisions in the Budget. The Department of
Education will introduce regional autonomy into Otago by establishing a Dunedin office so
that decisions about Dunedin need no longer be made in Christchurch. I should like to pay a
tribute to those people, particularly in my electorate, who this year took up the cudgels on
behalf of their sons and daughters to ensure that they receive the schooling of their choice. I
am sure that by this move the communication problems that previously existed will not occur
again. I welcome also the approval for work to go ahead on the Otago Hospital Board's new
geriatric assessment unit at Wakari Hospital. This will be very important in rehabilitating our
old people and ensuring that they retain their independence.
Together with other people in Otago-but, I guess, excluding the member for Dunedin
Central-I welcome and endorse the comments made by the chairman of the Otago
Regional Development Council, who said that the increased regional assistance placed
Otago first in the new regional aid scheme. We are confident we will take our place in the
sun. We will earn that by our own initiative and our own work, not by begging for handouts.
Hon. W. A. FRASER (St. Kilda): We have listened to two Government speakers, the
first of whom referred to a caring Budget. I will make reference to that later. Before I start
my speech, I have a message for the member who is trying to interject about the
Government's non-housing policy in Rotorua. Those of us who come from Otago never
cease to wonder at the temerity of a member in a marginal seat, who sees fit to take extreme
umbrage at his own party over its non-regional development policy. The member for
Dunedin North, who has just resumed his seat, said in November 1975 that freight subsidies
would be retained and expanded. However, what has happened? For some time, companies'
freight subsidies have been continued, although at a diminishing rate, while others have been
wiped completely.
All we heard from the member was a tirade against the member for Dunedin Central,
who had the responsibility, under the Labour Government, of administering New Zealand's
first regional development policy. For years there had been promises and reports, but no
action. It was not until the member for Dunedin Central became the Under-Secretary to the
Minister of Trade and Industry and was given responsibility for regional development that,
for the first time in decades, Otago-in the words of some of the people quoted by the
member for Dunedin North-entered into a golden era of development with a new
confidence throughout the province. That policy provided many hundreds of new job
opportunities, and ensured that base industries remained in the province. It also assisted one
industry mentioned by the member for Dunedin North. I know the manufacturer of that
excellent product, which is now being exported in great quantities, would say publicly that it
was thanks to the Labour Government that he got off the ground.
I want to remind the honourable member and other Government members that
Development Finance Corporation loans to Otago manufacturers totalled $6 million in
1975-a huge sum for one province. In 1972, the total was nil. The member for Dunedin
North spent half his time attacking a member on this side of the House-who is quite capable
of defending himself, and doubtless will—and making excuses for cuts, erosion, and what
had not been done. The wording of the Budget is quite clear. It states: "The return to a more
sustainable level of economic activity has not been accomplished without some cost to slow


## p. 2176 (#632) ###########################################

2176
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
growth regions . . . a number of the restrictions which were imposed on the existing
programme last year will be relaxed". That is an admission by the Government that it did cut
back-and certainly in Otago.
The member for Dunedin North also referred to a well compiled document-the survey
of the Otago region's resources. Historically, the National Government has turned its back
on regional development policies.
Richard Walls: What rot.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: It has, consistently. There have been no less than, I suppose, 20
reports, surveys, committees—you name it—and in every instance the reports have been
relegated to a pigeon-hole to gather dust. The Labour Party promised to do something, and
when it became the Government it did do something, but now regional development has
been very severely eroded in many areas. In 1972 the National Prime Minister failed to
appreciate the degree of importance placed upon regional development policies by local
people.
Regional development was undoubtedly a major issue in a number of areas, in the deep
south in particular. Implementation of a common-sense regional development policy was
strongly sought by people in the neglected areas, and refusal cost the National Government
dearly. The survey of the Otago region's resources, under the auspices of the Otago
Regional Development Council, is a well compiled document that provides direction, but, as
Eliza Doolittle of My Fair Lady fame said, "Words, words, words-I'm so sick of
words-show me!" That is how we in Otago feel. I quote the final two sentences of the
preface to the report by Mr Hunter, the Chairman of the Otago Regional Development
Council: "It is dynamic support by Government for basic development projects which is
required to sustain the region's self-confidence. In this introduction I ask for nothing more
than that this survey may hasten the time when words and plans are translated into action."
That is the crux of the whole thing.
We expect the Government to put its hand where its mouth was about the time of the
last election campaign. The Government made a number of lavish promises about housing at
the time of the last election, but its policies are well summed up in the Wairarapa Times-Age
of 23 June, under the caption, "Housing policies under siege". It stated: "The Government's
housing policy may not be in tatters, but it has become a sad casualty in the economic
downturn, and no amount of juggling the statistics to make things appear to be better than
they are can disguise the fact." How true that is.
We do not have the authority only of the editor of that paper. The President of the Real
Estate Institute, Mr Tom Molesworth, said that housing seemed to have been relegated
further down the Government's list of priorities than the home seeker had hoped. A well
known writer in the Evening Star said there was some joy for home buyers in the Budget, but
not much. An additional $35 million has been released through the savings banks, which will
satisfy only a small proportion of the mortgage demand. The tax rebate of up to $25 for
ratepayers is some recognition that home owners carry considerable responsibility, and the
further taxation exemption to $200 on interest from private mortgages for housing may
permit a little additional money to be made available for home buyers. But all that is just
fiddling around the circumference.
I refer to an editorial in the Christchurch Star of 1 June headed, "Little joy in the
housing situation". It stated: "The Opposition spokesman on housing, Hon. W. A. Fraser,
says that home ownership for tens of thousands of young New Zealanders is a rapidly fading
dream; and the Minister of Housing says it is not. As usual, the politicians are poles apart in
their assessments of the situation. It is likely, however, that more people will lean to the
fading dream theory than will support Mr Holland's contention that a young couple on the
average wage, who are prepared to put off having children for a few years and save one of
their incomes, could easily have $12,000 for a house after 3 years. Bearing in mind just what
it costs to live these days, Mr Holland's contention brings to mind a comment by the
comedian Bob Hope, who said, 'Two can live as cheaply as one, if one does not eat.' "How
true that is.
The editorial continues: "Mr Muldoon said recently that by limiting inward migration
the Government intended to keep the pressure off housing. It would thus stabilise house
prices until a normal income bore a similar relationship to the price of a house, the amount
of a deposit, and the mortgage repayments, as it did at the time of the change of Government
in 1972." It concludes: "In spite of Mr Muldoon's confidence, there is no sign of this
happening. It seems inevitable that New Zealand is to have less satisfactory standard of
housing and that, at the same time, people will have to pay dearly for it."


## p. 2177 (#633) ###########################################

16 August
2177
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
The statement by the Minister of Housing telling young people how to save $12,000
caused a great deal of comment, and indeed consternation, bewilderment, and wonderment.
In late May he said that if a young couple on the average wage were prepared to put off
having a family for the first few years of marriage they could, if they saved regularly, save
$12,000 in 3 years towards their first home. He said also that if they decided to have children
their income would be reduced to a single one. He talked about the couple banking $1,300
each for 3 years, if possible, and so on. He said, however, that if the couple felt they could
afford to bank a little more each week, and if they had their accounts in a trustee savings
bank, they might qualify for some type of loan. If, however, accounts were held by the Post
Office, they would be in a different situation. He said that if the couple wanted to save for 5
years, their return would be even greater. One can only call that an “if-ing" policy.
It was no trouble for this Government to find an extra $180 million to put into the
pockets of many people who do not require it, but at the same time it robbed the Housing
Corporation of more than $68 million last year. The Labour Government had funded $200
million through the National Development Loans Account for housing loans. The National
Government said last year that the estimates for housing loans would be $132 million, but in
the Budget we find that only $118 million was funded to the Housing Corporatio.1 for loans.
Not content with that, the amount this year is reduced to $108 million. Within a space of 18
months, therefore, the Government has almost halved the amount of finance available for
lending through the Housing Corporation, and this at a time of inflation and a time when,
notwithstanding that New Zealand is suffering from emigration rather than immigration,
thousands upon thousands of New Zealanders are desperately in need of a home, whether it
be through ownership or by renting.
What is the National Government doing to assist people in this time of housing crisis?
What happened to the variable mortgage repayment scheme, one of the innovations
introduced in the 1974 Budget and, I believe, one of the most important measures taken at
that time by the former Labour Government to assist young people into home ownership
with a much greater loan than they now receive to reduce initial outgoings? That scheme
provided many people with a new opportunity to enter into home ownership-the aspiration
of most New Zealanders. However, owning a home is now called a luxury by the Govern-
ment's friends, and possibly also by one or two Government members. I did not hear the
Minister of Housing defend his policies strongly in the face of statements made by a
millionaire who appeared on a television programme recently.
As the Leader of the Opposition said not long ago, the people will remember the
statement made by the Minister of Energy Resources when he proclaimed that if the
National Government was elected it would produce a dynamic new housing policy. Let us
consider that dynamic policy. The Government has wrecked the private mortgage market; it
has allowed mortgagee sales to increase dramatically, and it has set about destroying the land
bank built up by the former Labour Government. What kind of foresight does that indicate?
Just as National members have never liked State housing, so they have always hated having a
land bank, and once again they have set out to rid themselves of it at the very time when they
'could use it to provide the greatest help to the greatest number in the greatest need by
adding to the number of State houses, and by encouraging builders to come forward with
their own home designs. That is another policy knocked out by the National Government,
although it was welcomed by the builders when it was announced, and would be very
welcome today. However, it has been tossed out despite the fact that I believe—and I know
that most of my colleagues also believe that a rental proposition is frequently the first step
to home ownership. Indeed, in present circumstances, it is an essential first step.
The National Government has made it much more difficult to obtain a home. Under the
former Labour Government one could buy a State rental house with a deposit of 5 percent,
but the amount required has now quadrupled and a tenant has to buy the house he has
occupied for 6 years, whether or not he wishes to do so, otherwise he will be tossed out. That
is another indication of the way the National Government cares for people! I can hear the
member for Palmerston North making loud noises. He should have his photograph placed in
the Palmerston North Art Gallery, which we have heard him boasting about, with the
following caption: "This is the man who in 1972 made the infamous statement that under a
National Government mortgage finance would flow more freely." We all know that private
mortgage interest rates are now higher than ever before. The current rate of 10.4 percent
represents an increase of considerably more than 2 percent over the rate that applied during
the term of the former Labour Government. The prime interest rate on a Housing
Corporation mortgage has been raised to 8.5 percent, which means that a person with a


## p. 2178 (#634) ###########################################

2178
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
mortgage of $15,000 will now have to pay an additional $5 a week in mortgage outgoings,
and that over the life of the mortgage he has to find an extra $7,500.
When the member for Palmerston North faces the homeless in his electorate in
November 1978 he will have a lot to answer for. The indications are that 10 000 fewer homes
will be built in the 2 years from the current date compared to the number completed in the
past 2 years. What a colossal reduction, and what a dramatic effect it is having on the
construction industry and those dependent on it. I wonder whether the member for
Palmerston North realises that every house not built directly or indirectly affects the
livelihood of more than 200 people. No wonder the National Government always likes to use
the building industry as its main economic whipping boy. As one builder put it recently,
"How I would love to get a hammer and nail bag around Mr Muldoon's midriff." Well, many
builders throughout the country, including one of my colleagues and myself, are rather fussy
about whom we would employ. We are caring people, and believe in quality workmanship
and quality homes. National Governments have always had a record of treating the builders
harshly, and of treating the average wage and salary earners shabbily in the provision of
homes. That fact is very clear to those who have had to suffer in the past and to those who
are suffering now at the hands of a National Administration that just does not care.
If it cared, the Government could use some of the thousands of million dollars extra it is
receiving from taxation to provide homes, rather than handing the money back to its wealthy
friends and allowing the moneylenders to run riot. I suspect that some of those people put
their weight fairly heavily on the National Government, but I emphasise that some of the
extra money should have been given to the Housing Corporation to replace the amount
taken from it, thus making allowance for inflation. In that way continuity of employment
would be provided for those engaged in our important building industry.
Let us not forget that in areas such as Otago the strain will increase. I understand that
900 new homes will be needed in the next 5 years in and around Cromwell. Where will the
tradesmen come from? Certainly many will come from the Dunedin and Oamaru districts,
but that in turn will throw a greater strain on the local scene. Therefore we will need more
tradesmen from outside the region to maintain local output and at the same time build the
necessary houses and other amenities and ancillary services required in the very important
Clutha area, particularly now that the Government has seen fit to rush ahead almost willy-
nilly with its supposedly cheaper F scheme. One of the other proposed schemes might have
cost a little more in the short term, but it would have been of much greater value in the long
term and would have shown much greater consideration for the environment and for those
people, particularly the local residents, who do not want scheme F. I guess that in November
1978 they too will be telling the Government very clearly what they think about scheme F
and the Government's decision to proceed with it.
Someone else, way outside the Labour movement, has thoughts similar to mine on the
Government's present housing policy. Mr C. W. Pollard of Henderson and Pollard Ltd of
Auckland said recently that the latest reports from the timber industry indicated that sales
were 40 percent below last year's, and, indeed, that reported activity was reduced by 50
percent in some cases. I particularly want to quote a paragraph from the Christchurch Star of
2 August: "Government policy is once again using the building construction industry as a
prime weapon to dampen the economy. This is in the face of the election manifesto, which
promised that a National Government would never again be a party to a stop-go policy on
building, and the pledge given for every married couple to be able to finance and build their
own homes." I remind the Minister of Housing that he was a party to that promise, made not
only to the people of Fendalton but to all people throughout the whole of New Zealand.
Where is their credibility now? Members opposite have let the people down. They have
let down some of their own supporters. As I said recently, in a statement that did not see the
light of day, the Government's own official statistics prove beyond a shadow of doubt that
the building industry is in the most severe slump for decades. If the June level of home
building continues throughout this year, the Government will miss its housing target of
26 000 houses by about 6000. In the month of June this year only 1700 houses were built
compared to 2600 in June last year. If that figure is related to an annual rate—and I agree
that June is a low output month-that would mean only 20 400 houses per annum. It is
getting a bit late for the Minister, even if he carries out his promise, to let up to 90 percent of
State rental contracts between now and December; that will be totally insufficient to reach
his target of between 26 000 and 28 000.
Once again we have the Government's past performance to look at. Last year we were
told the target was between 28 000 and 30 000 completed homes. In fact, the Government


## p. 2179 (#635) ###########################################

16 August
2179
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
barely scratched the surface of 28 000. Although the Government states that its target this
year is between 26 000 and 28 000, I wonder if it will reach 26 000. I bet the Minister of
Housing that he will not reach that target. At the present rate, the people will be very
fortunate indeed if we reach 24 000. This Government should be cast from office on the basis
of what it has not done for home seekers and home builders.
If present policies are allowed to continue, and if present trends continue, New Zealand
will be divided into two classes-the well-to-do who will own their own homes, and the rest
who will be forced to rent. Only today in a report in the New Zealand Herald we have
further evidence of this downward trend. Mr R. M. White, the Chairman of the Auckland
Major Home Builders Group, in talking about the permits to which I have just referred said:
"There is worse to come. The figures do not surprise me. It is something the industry has
known about for quite some time and has been warning the Government would happen. The
figures will get even worse in August. There is little point in commenting on the figures,
because no one in the Government takes any notice." That is a very interesting comment
from one of the leaders in the building industry, who would be one of the three largest home
producers in the country. He concluded by saying: "The situation was an enormous social
injustice to a particular group of young New Zealanders. Practically everyone in New
Zealand has enjoyed low interest rates since the year dot, and now these new groups have
been thrown to the wolves. It is a tragedy."
Those statements were made by some of the leaders of the construction industry, and I
have heard from many more who are not leaders in the construction industry. Without those
skills, what sort of society will this Government leave for the future? The skills lost to the
building industry cannot be replaced overnight. They cannot be replaced in 1 year. It takes
perhaps 4 or 5 years to pick up the pieces, and a Labour Government has had to do that
more than once in the past. I predict it will have to do it again in 1979. The last Labour
Government had to bring tradesmen from England and to introduce adult emergency
retraining schemes to try to instil confidence in builders and in the parents of boys who
showed an aptitude for learning a trade in the building industry. It takes a long time to pick
up the pieces, and I regret that once again a Labour Government will face a mammoth
housing mess.
An appalling lack of foresight has been shown by the National Government, particularly
in land purchase, land development, and the provision of building sections to keep costs
down and help people who aspire to home ownership. We believe that our people have this
right, and that is the major difference between the two principal parties. The National Party
does not accept that. It looks upon housing and the construction industry as an element of
economics. The Labour Party looks on housing as a social necessity, and the next Labour
Government will live up to its responsibilities in this sphere. We have seen an appalling lack
of foresight in an abrogation of responsibility for the home builder and home seeker. In
short, there has been an almost complete absence of social conscience on the part of the
Government towards what should be one of its main responsibilities to people who can least
help themselves. The Government's housing policy is a policy without a soul. Home seekers
and home builders will not forgive or forget this National Government and what it has not
done for them.
Mr FENTON (Hastings): It is a delight to follow the member for St. Kilda, who was,
however, entirely predictable and whose speech was characteristic of those of members of
his party who preceded him-characteristic in the sense that one would have assumed that
upon the change of Government deemed so necessary by the people everything was a picture
of great beauty and harmony, with no discontent being prevalent in this country, adminis-
tered by members opposite for three brief years in which they changed the whole pattern of
people's lives from one of hope to one of despair.
In dealing with housing the member forgot to mention the 3600 unprocessed loans with
which the new Government had to cope because the former Government left no money with
which to deal with them. He forgot about the $170 million implied overcommitment due to
the previous Government's housing policy. He forgot the 25 000 immigrants who were still
living in the country without housing hope, and who still posed a housing need for which the
Labour Government had no panacea and no policy. He also forgot the doubling of the cost
of housing during his party's regime, and the trebling of the cost of sections. In doing that he
and other Labour spokesmen have conveniently forgotten something that is more
important—that because the Labour Government doubled the cost of houses and trebled the
cost of sections the people had to find double the deposit, had to borrow double the money,
and had to pay double the amount of interest in each case when borrowing was applicable.


## p. 2180 (#636) ###########################################

2180
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
So all those people were faced with at least double the commitment because of the reckless
policy of the Labour Government. That same Government now seeks to blame its
successor, the National Government, for something that happened under its administration.
However, I intend dealing with housing matters a little later.
In dealing with regional development the member dealt, even if a little vicariously, with
the member for Dunedin North when he said he was less than interested in regional
development. In the Evening Star of 17 July 1975, following a promise made by the Labour
Government in 1972, it is reported: "Two regional development loans totalling $156,000
have been received by the Otago Regional Development Council... This follows the threat
of resignation last week by some members of the development council unless delays in
dealing with aid applications were overcome." That is perfectly correct, and illustrates once
again the emptiness of words and promises that have no philosophy to back them up.
I am beginning to believe that in some ways the Budget debate may have reached a
stage of either total fulfilment or frustrated exhaustion. It is a commonly held belief
throughout the country that the Opposition has experienced the frustration and exhaustion.
The Opposition front bench can never hope again to demonstrate the attributes of an
effective debating force unless the Labour Party appoints candidates to replace the tired and
dispirited coterie of aged performers. Everyone has waited in vain for hints of constructive-
ness from its shattered remnants, for vigour and qualities of leadership from the top three,
and for some clear identification of this triumvirate in the new order of democratic socialism
embraced by the party's last conference.
We have wondered if positive alternatives to the Government's budgetary measures
would be propounded by those men of prescience and uncluttered social awareness who
mastermind the Labour Party's policy strategies. I for one am anxious to be informed of the
Labour Party's precise or even general approach to energy, transport, regional develop-
ment, taxation restructuring, housing, superannuation, and many other facets by which I am
quite sure the doctrine of socialism would be characterised were the Labour Party returned
to power. It seems certain that the Opposition's principal spokesmen have now spoken, and
their silence on these significant matters is the silence of the Labour Party. There is a sadness
in it all, and the melancholy of sterility or barrenness or both.
Whatever tumult and shouting may have preceded me, I am unable to pretend that the
Opposition has contributed significantly to the sum of human knowledge in this debate,
which certainly appears to have stagnated, along with the Opposition. What then can a
modest contributor say or do to shake from its collective lethargy a team so negative and
melancholy? Can one begin by asking the member for Manukau, who speaks on consumer
affairs, why he is conducting an unremitting onslaught against industry? Should one ask the
same member, who has also assumed the spokesmanship on housing, why he errs so
consistently in his analysis of housing needs? Is it productive to seek from the same member,
who is also the Opposition's shadow advocate on broadcasting, a response about the
Government's salvage operation in this sphere, or is there confusion here?
It has been noted in this debate and over recent months that the member for Manukau
appears to be sharing with the Leader of the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition, and the member for Wigram, the burden of refuting the advantages of national
superannuation. I do not know in these circumstances whether the Opposition is better
described as a head without a body, or a body with no head. However, one thing is certain.
When one answers the cavalier and groundless criticisms of the Opposition on each of the
fronts I have described, it is surprising to observe that the body corporate reacts with dismay
and demoralisation, instead of the member designated as the official spokesman. Be that as
it may, and hoping there is an accredited voice to give answer without some sort of party
sanction on his side, I want to put to the test the competence of whoever it is who commits
the Labour Party in discussion on the topics of major contention.
If I were to commence with industry I should have to ask the member for Manukau what
it is about Wattie Industries that so agitates him. This firm, which was founded in my
electorate and which employs directly and indirectly 7000 people, has been isolated from
industrial disorders, assists the country as an exporter, sustains growers through its reliable
intake of their produce, pays modest dividends to 26 000 very small shareholders, and
operates without dependence on State funding. The member for Manukau may be respond-
ing like an obedient acolyte to the blandishments of the high priestess of the South Brighton
branch of the Labour Party in the opprobrium he brings to the name of that company, or he
may be preparing ground ideologically for the great socialist design. The Opposition has said
ad nauseam that the Government has collected $200 million more from direct taxation than


## p. 2181 (#637) ###########################################

16 August
2181
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
it budgeted for. The question to be asked is whether this heinous crime rivals in enormity the
Labour Government's unauthorised overexpenditure in 1975 of $239 million, incurred
without the sanction of Parliament and without the collection of taxes to cover the spending.
The sanctity of Parliament and its constitutional forms and processes has been a topic
much canvassed by the Opposition. I recall the member for Mangere, when he was in a very
admonitory mood, chiding Government members, who he noted had independent princi-
ples, for what he called an acquiescence in what he implied to be the unethical or
unconstitutional actions of the Government. Their unprotesting acceptance, he hinted,
endangered their credibility and could even erode their integrity. Consistency in matters
moral is one outstanding attribute I can bring myself to admire, so I urge the member for
Mangere to stand apart from some of his colleagues who remain so selective in this respect
and who demonstrate double standards when speaking of taxation and expenditure, espe-
cially when they talk of the $200 million collected in taxes and not budgeted for and
conveniently forget that they broke a certain covenant in overspending $239 million without
the sanction of the House. I am sure the member for Mangere possesses an intellect that is
well developed to discern and, therefore, eschew those claims, which are both tenuous and
spurious.
It remains, however, a matter of damning culpability that the Labour Government
recorded a projected deficit of $1,400 million, but the only law broken was the law of
caution. In neglecting the limit of parliamentary sanctions by its total disregard in 1975 for
the parliamentary estimates, the Labour Government took a different law into its hands,
and, I suggest, mocked it. So, there cannot be a pretence of consistency when such a
debating point as tax collection is made. The fact to emerge makes confusion for the
Opposition worse confounded, for is it not also claimed persistently that the income earner
has stood still under the National Government? If this were so, and given that the incidence
of tax increase has not changed, where did the improvement in taxation receipts arise? There
has not been the alleged static position in earnings. The increase in revenue has come from
the tax tables that were previously operative and that applied to improved wages and
salaries. The average for the year is 13.8 percent across the work force.
I have touched briefly on the fears that are being engendered by the Opposition on
national superannuation and industry. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition referred to
many recipients of national superannuation as the undeserving elderly, and spoke of a
possible revision. Last Tuesday the member for Manukau was reported on Radio New
Zealand as having said that under a Labour Government national superannuation would
have to be modified.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: What does that mean?
Mr FENTON: Someone has asked what that means. What do those expressions mean in
candid terms? Does the word "revision" imply a change in the age of the superannuitants
before they can draw superannuation, or does it suggest a return to Labour's exclusion of the
housewife, as in its New Zealand superannuation scheme? What does "modify" mean?
Does it mean the imposition of an income test to reduce the benefits of some, and perhaps
the total removal of benefits from others, or is there to be a greater scale of tax charges for
those who happen to enjoy a supplementary income? Is there to be a giant step backwards in
terms of socialist philosophy with the reintroduction of one, two, or three forms of
discrimination in the application of a super scheme?
By the same token, why is the Opposition representing the cost of national superannua-
tion to be $900 million? I should like to know the answer to that, because that representation
is occurring with monotonous frequency. Even the least informed of the Opposition
members must know that any figure used must include, for purposes of comparison, the
former cost of age benefits and universal superannuation as separate items. The comparison
must also make proper allowance for the taxation revenue flowing back from the gross
amounts paid out to all superannuitants. When the exercise is done correctly we find it is yet
another example of Labour Party research that is defective and based on the most cavalier of
assumptions.
We also find that Labour's spokesmen have been at pains to omit the cost of their own
ill-founded and unlamented scheme, which was levying employees and employers by 2.5
percent each on the earnings of the former, with a life span of such payments for the average
worker. The exaggerated cost of $900 million for national superannuation presented to the
public by Labour's luminaries can be exploded as just another myth; the position is
unchallengeable. The figure incorporated the amount it would have been necessary to
budget for if the previous age benefit and universal superannuation had not been merged


## p. 2182 (#638) ###########################################

2182
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
into one scheme. On that basis we do have a Budget estimate of $930 million. The
Opposition was wrong in its estimate of $900 million.
Before the Opposition murmurs any delight at an apparent confirmation of its research
unit's fanciful claims, I shall progress with the arithmetic that will guide it to truth. There is a
tax recovery of $165 million from the gross, which reduces the cost to $765 million. More
than that, the former cost of the age benefit and universal superannuation has to be
withdrawn from that total, and they totalled $598 million, which would have had to be
budgeted for if the schemes had not been changed. Pursuing the arithmetic to its logical
conclusion, we find that this leaves the net additional cost of national superannuation not at
$900 million, but at $167 million. That amount is for a scheme that does not discriminate
against women and does not require a giant funding, giving the State a supreme financial
weapon. National superannuation is simple to administer and does not delay its performance
for half a century, as did the Labour Government's incredible animal.
One finds a similar situation to refute in other areas assailed by Opposition members,
including the member for St. Kilda. In housing, the Opposition has made claims of tokenism
and even of subterfuge and deceit in the Government's relief from taxation for young
families on small incomes. The Opposition has made claims of subterfuge and deceit in the
presentation of these matters, and those claims have to be refuted. They are so misleading
that last week I found it necessary to call together the groups interested in housing, for a
seminar in Hastings. I found it most significant that many of the people who attended were
unaware of the Budget provisions and the moves initiated by the Minister of Housing before
21 July. This made me wonder how many Opposition members, as men and women of
rectitude and propriety, would respond if approached by a constituent to explain the
Government's housing policy. Would they narrate the full details of the expanded and
improved home ownership savings account schemes, or would they advise that by the
removal of stamp duty an average of $260 has been struck off the expenses for every modest
home purchaser buying a first home?
Would they be at pains to explain the tax concessions and the rebate on rates? Would
they reassure the low-income earners that 3 percent loans and 5.5 percent loans are
available, and that not all loans are of the nature they describe? Would they explain that one
of the reasons that the home seeker today is finding frustration-which perhaps Opposition
members did accurately describe—is that the Labour Government's policies of recklessness
and irresponsibility in administering the Housing Corporation brought young couples to the
point of disaster from which the National Government is trying so valiantly to rescue them?
Would they say those things?
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: That's not correct.
Mr FENTON: I am asking the member whether Opposition members would say those
things. Would they do what they could to assist the home owner, or would they—and I hope
they would not-rely and depend on some kind of political bigotry and try to score off the
misery of those people? Would they be willing to tell a constituent that the summary of the
schemes for special home ownership savings accounts is something that could be put into the
hands of those people by the Post Office and by trustee savings banks? The blunt fact that
has come to light is that I have found people in my electorate who were surprised to hear
about the three schemes. Under the first scheme, a couple-or a single person-saving $500
a year for a total deposit of $2,750 could receive tax rebates of $2,126, or an effective return
of 75 percent of savings after 5 years, or 67 percent after 3 years. Under the second scheme,
if a couple or a single person-can save $1,300 a year, a tax rebate of $4,310 on a total of
$6,750 could be received, representing an effective return of 64 percent of savings after 5
years, or 60 percent after 3 years, upon the condition that those savings are reinvested in the
account. Under the third scheme, which is not beyond the bounds of possibility, and comes
within the bounds of probability for many working couples, a couple able to save $2,000 a
year to a total of $10,250 could receive tax rebates of $4,500, or an effective return of 44
percent of savings after 3 years or 5 years.
Dealing with one of these schemes—and I am not trying to pick selectively that which is
most attractive, but that which is probably in most cases practical-with $1,550 for the first
year's savings and $1,300 for each of the remaining 4 years, the total will be $6,750, the
interest $800, the rebates $4,310, and the accumulated balance in the account at the end of
that time $11,860. That means that in return for savings of $6,750 over 5 years a depositor
could receive tax rebates of $4,310. That represents an effective return on savings of 64
percent after 5 years, or 60 percent after 3 years, in addition to the normal 3 percent interest
on all deposits.


## p. 2183 (#639) ###########################################

16 August
2183
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
I have heard Opposition members describe the Government as callous, or words to that
effect, in its approach to housing. I have waited to hear them say what brought housing
almost to its knees before the National Government took office. They could have been
sufficiently generous to say that the Government inherited insuperable problems from the
previous Government, not only in housing but also in many other spheres. They could have
been sufficiently generous to say that the Budget provides for housing finance for young
home seekers. Indeed, if their concern for these people is as great as they say it is, it is their
duty to tell their constituents what the Budget provides. There is not a great deal more to be
said about housing, but much needs to be said about the savage onslaughts made on
industry, chiefly by the member for Manukau. I have mentioned Wattie Industries, which
has 26 000 shareholders who draw very modest dividends indeed. That company must
remain economic in order to keep employment alive in my district.
Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru): The member for Hastings has given us a characteristic well
constructed and articulate speech. The response of Opposition members was surprising. I do
not know whether they could not hear or whether they could not understand. Perhaps they
could understand, and accepted the member's valid criticisms. As the debate draws to a
close, a lack of comprehension, a lack of recognition, of the fundamental economic realities
facing the country is being revealed. The Opposition does not understand the economic
realities that led up to this Budget, the previous Budget, and indeed all the financial
measures taken by the Government since November 1975.
During the term of office of the Labour Government between 1973 and 1975 the terms
of trade turned against New Zealand in an unprecedented fashion, and that surely was the
start of our present economic problems. Labour members were in the driver's seat when
their party was the Government and some of them at least should understand the implica-
tions of the change in the terms of trade, but because they had failed to respond with positive
action the country was left with a projected deficit of $1,400 million and an inflation rate of
15.7 percent. Therefore we can assume that they did not really understand what was going
on in trade balances and internal economic activities. During the debate, I have become
convinced that that lack of understanding still exists in the ranks of the Opposition; or if
there was any understanding when members opposite were in Government it has now gone.
Opposition members continually display gross inconsistencies in their policies and the
proposals they put forward. Constantly and consistently they advocate more Government
expenditure and less taxation. How does one marry those two proposals? Every time the
Government has raised its charges and reduced the Stabilisation vote it has been criticised by
the Opposition. The implication is that the Government should increase stabilisation
payments instead of Government charges. At the same time, Opposition members say that
the Government should reduce imports and unemployment. I should like an Opposition
member to tell us how those proposals can be married, because they are mutually exclusive
and contradictory. We well remember that Government expenditure rose by 29 percent in
the 1974 financial year, and by 28 percent in 1975.
Mr Hunt: What's wrong with that?
Mr ELWORTHY: It is interesting that a similar pattern occurred in Australia, with
similar results-and the member for New Lynn understands that quite well, because he
travelled with me in Australia on a Commonwealth Parliamentary Association tour.
Mr Hunt: Yes, and a very good trip too.
Mr ELWORTHY: We saw the same kind of problems there, resulting from gross
overspending by the Government and gross lack of understanding.
Mr Hunt: I know, and they are going to have the same problem again with their
National Party too.
Mr ELWORTHY: It is nice to have the member for New Lynn back with us again. We
get some response from him. Fundamentally the Government has tried in the Budget to
achieve the objectives of its policy, which were to restrain Government expenditure, reduce
consumption gradually, and move resources into export income. I have the impression that
recently the country has been astonished at the Opposition which, while the Government
grapples with important issues, is involved with fiddling with philosophy and terminology—
Mr Hunt: Who wrote that?
Mr ELWORTHY: Committing itself to democratic socialism, but not understanding
what it means-
Mr Hunt: Who wrote that?
Mr ELWORTHY: It is in my own handwriting. The Opposition talks about restructur-
ing taxation and imposing a wealth tax, but it sheds its blood in public in unsavoury scraps for


## p. 2184 (#640) ###########################################

2184
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
seats in the Auckland area. It dips into its campaign funds to balance the books and finance
current expenses. The Labour Party embarked on a campaign for 100 000 members. We
have not yet heard how many members it has, but it is interesting to note that during a little
scrap the member for Dunedin Central had with his electorate executive it transpired that
the Dunedin Central branch-and one would have thought that Dunedin Central is a
relatively safe seat-had 350 members. If we take that as the average, the total membership
of the Labour Party is about 30 000. In a recent public opinion poll to find the most effective
politician outside the Government, 20 percent favoured Bruce Beetham, 15 percent were
"don't knows", 13 percent chose the Leader of the Opposition, and 1 percent chose the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition—he just registered. That poll reflects the public's opinion
of the Opposition's performance. The Labour Government failed to understand that
governments can provide services only when wealth is generated by the private sector, and
Labour in Opposition still fails to understand that. The private sector was ignored by the
Labour Government, and it is ignored by the Labour Opposition. I have been amazed to
hear the member for St. Kilda constantly talking about caring for people. That is a phrase he
uses very often, and he implies that the Government does not care. During his term as
Minister of Housing house prices doubled.
Hon. W. A. Fraser: That's wrong.
Mr ELWORTHY: Statistically it is right.
Hon. W. A. Fraser: Probably it's wrong.
Mr ELWORTHY: Probably wrong, statistically right—I shall not argue with statistics.
The price of houses increased by 96 percent, and the price of sections increased by 130
percent.
Mr Hunt: That's wrong too.
Mr ELWORTHY: Section prices increased by 130 percent. How do you care for people
while you double house prices, and increase section prices by 130 percent?
The Budget correctly reflects the worldwide concern with energy problems.
Squadron Leader Drayton: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I do not think the
House has a quorum.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I think there are 20 now. I am not quite sure how many there
were when the member drew my attention to it. It is difficult to get a tally when there is a bit
of coming and going.
Mr ELWORTHY: It is nice to have the Senior Opposition Whip staying with us. I am
sure he will listen with a great deal of attention to my speech. As I was saying before the
sudden exodus from the Chamber, the Budget reflects the worldwide concern over energy. I
applaud the formation of the new Ministry of Energy. Our future development will depend
very largely on the efficient use of resources, and the efficient use of energy in processing
those resources, and will be tied closely to national and regional development. The House
should note that in the overall scheme the farming industry, in both production and
processing, is estimated to use 17 percent of our total energy consumption and forestry
7 percent.
We import 80 percent of our total energy, and of that total energy resource it is worth
noting that five industrial plants use 20 percent of all the electricity used and in doing so
produce between 2 and 3 percent of the gross national product. Farming and forestry, which
are earning 80 percent of our overseas funds, use 25 percent of our total energy input. In
contrast, five industrial firms are using 20 percent of the electricity generated, and producing
only 2 to 3 percent of the gross national product. That is indicative of the way our future
development must go; energy must be used to produce export goods efficiently. Energy
balance sheets will become part of the planning process, equally as important as cash flows in
determining viability. Our energy will become so important that we will have to do a
balance-sheet exercise to determine the investment production potential of the use of energy
resources.
Since the change of Government, the Commission for the Future, the New Zealand
Planning Council chaired by Sir Frank Holmes, and the Commission for the Environment
have been set up, and I see these three national bodies at the centre of future planning
procedures, working more closely with regional planning authorities, which are in the
process of being formulated, and with regional development councils. These organisations
must be involved in measuring our resources, and formulating the various options for growth
and development using indigenous raw materials: coal, gas, and ongoing hydro-electricity
development.
The Budget proposals to prospect for gas and coal on-shore are to be applauded, and


## p. 2185 (#641) ###########################################

16 August
2185
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
also the measures to assist in surveying coal resources. Closely associated is the Government
assistance to local authorities for the development of small hydro schemes. It is worth noting
that 19 prospective small hydro schemes have the potential to generate 4000 gigawatt hours,
almost as much as scheme F in the Clutha Valley, so the small hydro will not only produce a
significant amount of power, but will also be producing for local use, saving transmission
losses, and involving the community through the local authority in the development and use
of that power resource.
There has been controversy in the South Island lately about an electricity differential
between the islands. I do not support an electricity differential as such, because we must
have national commodity pricing for important commodities, but we should be looking at
processing raw materials close to sources of power. If we can give those developments
priority, that will be a sensible, rational, efficient way to use power resources, and a useful
form of regional development.
I want to say a word or two about the wage negotiations taking place today as a result of
the return to free bargaining. I welcome the response to this decision by the Federation of
Labour and the Employers Federation, which have indicated that they are prepared to take a
responsible view, and to use this opportunity to show that free bargaining is a viable
proposal. At the same time, the pledge by the Public Service Association of full support for
direct action if it is necessary to fight changes in legislation governing State servants' wages
and conditions of employment is extremely disappointing. I hope that the association will get
alongside the Federation of Labour and the Employers Federation in an effort to indicate to
the Government that its faith in these organisations is justified, that a responsible view will
be taken, and that the pressures of an irresponsible minority in the Public Service Associa-
tion, and the Federation of Labour, and a weak section of the Employers Federation, will be
resisted by the moderate majority within those organisations.
I welcome the profit-sharing announcements in the Budget. They will lead to increased
productivity in some companies. We must look at ways and means to include employees in
the decision-making processes, and I suggest that the proposals by the Labour Party for
worker-participation, although at the moment they are only words, should be supported. I
imagine that if a rational, sensible scheme can be evolved, it will be welcomed by the
Government. It is regrettable that when the Leader of the opposition visited a Christchurch
factory to discuss the possibilities of worker participation, he apparently did not see fit to
invite the national president of the union to the talks.
Referring to farming and related matters in the Budget, I welcome the 33 percent
increase in the amount allocated in the estimates for soil and water conservation.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Mr ELWORTHY: Before the tea adjournment I was talking about the Budget increase
of 33 percent for water and soil conservation, bringing the total to $27 million. Irrigation,
which is very important to North Otago, is the first and best form of regional development.
Already, $10 million has been spent by the taxpayer for irrigation on both sides of the
Waitaki River.
Hon. W. A. Fraser: What about the Maniototo?
Mr ELWORTHY: As the member knows, that scheme is under way. The Waitaki River
is spilling on to the plains, and both the Morven-Glenavy scheme and the lower Waitaki
scheme are up to schedule and nearing completion. Two other schemes are being planned.
The Marewhenua scheme is committed, with the soil already being turned over in that area.
The most pleasing aspect about irrigation is the report from the economics division of the
Ministry of Agriculture on the Wairaka Valley scheme, which will encourage diversified
farming on top-quality soil.
Mr Courtney: What about horticulture?
Mr ELWORTHY: I think the vegetables grown in the area will eventually be processed
there. North Otago depends on the use of water, soil fertility, agricultural skills and the
processing of the products coming from the irrigated areas.
This year, Mr John Kneebone completed his term as president of Federated Farmers. I
compliment him on the constructive speech he gave to the federation's annual conference.
He has been an outstanding president, and this year's conference reflected his constructive
and positive viewpoint. The conference was the best I have attended, and indicated a
confidence in the future of the farming industry, which I am sure is ready to respond to the
many incentives in the Budget for greater production and increased export earnings. The
acceptance of the wool-trigger price recently announced indicates the responsible attitude
being taken by Federated Farmers and the industry in accepting a form of income


## p. 2186 (#642) ###########################################

2186
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
stabilisation as a necessary part of the economic scene.
The Labour Opposition still has to accept the need for adjustment to a slower growth
rate created by the imbalances during its term of government. Members opposite have
difficulty in accepting that governments can spend only what the private sector can produce
through goods and services, and taxation. The neglect of the private sector during the 1972-
75 term of the Labour Government, and that Government's gross overexpenditure and
borrowing, has caused the changed terms of trade and a lower rate of production and
consumption of goods. Every member on this side of the House is strongly behind the
Minister of Finance and the measures he has taken. I believe that the people accept the need
for those measures, and I ask members opposite to accept the need to adjust to a slower
growth rate. The member for Roskill and the member for Mangere are both asking for more
co-operation within the community. The best co-operation we could get at the moment
would be for the Opposition to realise and acknowledge that the growth rate has to be
reduced, and to support the National Government in achieving a reduction.
Squadron Leader DRAYTON (St. Albans): Occasionally members on both sides of the
House agree, and I join with the member for Oamaru in complimenting Mr John Kneebone
on his services to our nation. I also wish Mr Allan Wright, his successor, every success in his
tenure of office.
The 1977 Budget is this year's Mark IV Budget and was followed by its 64 explanatory
press statements. It is obsessed with money, and makes very little provision for the social
advancement of our country. Almost every second page deals with an increase in interest
rates. Indeed, the Budget could be described as a catalogue of interest rates. It is a
disappointing document, possessing all the heart and compassion of a bookie's bagman. Not
one word of the 14 000 mentions defence, but more of that later.
I want to speak about borrowing. I am sure my colleagues can remember that in 1975
the National Opposition had all the answers to borrowing, and had the panacea to our
economic ills. It was the economic messiah. However, we now find that $2 million has been
borrowed for every day the National Government has been in office. That amounts to 75c a
day for every man, woman, and child. If a family borrowed at that rate each day to manage
its budget, the bailiffs would very soon be in. National also had the answer on imports, and
the then Opposition members selected two items for which they said imports were too high
-typewriters and bananas. The volume of imports has not decreased under the National
Government. Mind you, I am not unhappy that imports of bananas have not decreased,
because that means our Island neighbours are being helpful. I should hate to think that fewer
bananas were being imported and that the Minister of Energy was starving to death.
I now want to talk about disarmament. I do not think that any member of this House has
done sufficient to further the cause of world disarmament. The world's armament bill for
1976 was terrifying. It amounted to $340,000 million, or, to illustrate it more graphically,
1300 times New Zealand's annual defence expenditure. In 1976 the world spent, in 1 year,
sufficient on arms alone—not taking into account defence salaries or other incidentals-to
maintain New Zealand's defence budget at the current level until the year 3277, far ahead of
any year depicted in the space operas we see on television. Put another way, the world's
armaments bill in 1976 was 66 times New Zealand's total budget in 1977-78. Research shows
that 70 percent of arms spending is divided between the NATO and Warsaw Pact countries,
and 30 percent is spent by Third World countries. The great tragedy is that much of the
spending is by countries that cannot afford it. In fact, it seems to me that some Third World
countries may almost be forced by the great powers into the purchasing of armaments.
It is terrifying-absolutely horrifying-to reflect on the types of weapons being offered:
a neutron warhead capable of killing more people by radiation than the conventional nuclear
warhead. In the name of God, has science gone completely psychopathic? The new neutron
warhead spares buildings and properties, and that seems to have a familiar political ring,
with property becoming more important than people. Even worse, there is the prospect of an
ultrasonic bomb being perfected, which destroys the human mind, making human beings
into maniacal idiots incapable of reason—and it is an irreversible process.
Although I paint a depressing picture of the world's race for arms-and it has been
described as the arms bazaar, although I would prefer to describe it as the arms bizarre—
there does appear to be some hope for survival. President Carter is committed to the
abolition of nuclear weapons, and President Brezhnev is committed to the achievment of
detente, although that seems to have become a little more difficult recently. In the name of
humanity, the arms race must be stopped. Governments should not be able to spend the
world's major resources to promote a nuclear war.


## p. 2187 (#643) ###########################################

16 August
2187
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
It may seem something of an irony that I speak about disarmament and then speak of
some of our defence needs, but there is no conflict whatsoever in my mind. I have often said
in the House that we do not yet live in that beautiful, perfect world where armed forces are
no longer needed; therefore the maintenance of armed forces cannot really be argued. What
can be argued, however, is the way in which those armed forces are maintained, and the
arms with which they are provided. I will-as will the Labour Party-always support the
need for the defence of our nation, and the need for supporting our defence obligations, but
I-support defensive means, not offensive methods.
I understand that members of the Government caucus committee visited the
Christchurch workshops of the National Airways Corporation yesterday and were impressed
with the capabilities and performance of NAC's flight simulator. For that reason I think I
might strike a sympathetic ear when I strongly recommend to the Minister of Defence that
he and the Defence Council consider the purchase of flight simulators for the Royal New
Zealand Air Force. I would like to claim that such purchases would mean an immediate
saving in fuel; I cannot really do that, but there is a potential for a vast saving in fuel bills
through the use of flight simulators by the RNZAF. No real savings would come about at the
moment, because I understand that the RNZAF's flying hours are currently at an irreducible
minimum. But I understand we could meet P3-that is, the Orion-and C130 flight
simulator training with co-operation from the Royal Australian Air Force.
The provision of flight simulators in New Zealand for the A4s, Strikemasters, and
Iriquois would have the following advantages: first, crews could reach an even greater
standard of efficiency; secondly, additional flying hours, even within current restrictive
hours, would become available for tactical training and flying; thirdly, the flying training
syllabus could be used to better advantage; and fourthly, potential accidents could be
lessened—although it is hard to determine as a result of simulated training just what
accidents would not have happened. For the A4s and the Strikemasters, $3 million to $4
million would cover the cost of flight simulators, and, for the Iriquois, $400,000. This is a
small cost indeed to provide greater efficiency and safety for our RNZAF crews.
The days when an aircraft could be diverted from a primary role to pure training without
biting into an air force's finances are long gone. The maintenance and operating costs of a
simulator are only 10 percent of those of an actual aircraft. In simulator flying training,
errors can immediately be detected by the instructor or by the pilot from an instant video
playback of the simulator training session. The instructor can stop the exercise in flight. He
can freeze the instrument readings and the visual representations of the scene outside the
cockpit. He can then discuss with the pilot just how the emergency arose, and they can
discuss the effect of every action the trainee took or should have taken to keep the situation
under control.
I want to discuss further electronic needs for our C130s and Andovers. I refer to flight
recorders and downed aircraft position indicators-DAPIs, as they are sometimes known, or
more commonly crash position indicators. It is an almost universal fitment for commercial
airlines, and should be a must for RNZAF aircraft. We could meet that requirement for
$500,000. The items I have spoken about this evening would cost about $5 million. I do not
think that is very much money to provide for the safety required in a modern air force.
I shall say a little about defence housing. I am sure that that will not surprise the
member for Marlborough. I quote from the King James Authorised Version of the National
Party manifesto, which states that, to give incentives to young men to volunteer for full-time
service in the armed services, the National Government will, after 12 years' service, make
the normal, two-thirds housing loans available at an interest rate of 5 percent, rebated to 3
percent in the first 5 years, the balance of any loan in excess of that amount to be at normal
Housing Corporation rates of interest. I do not cavil about that at all. In fact, I almost wish I
had written it myself. But how many loans have been approved under that policy? After all,
more than half the National Government's term has expired; it now has only 460 days left. I
wonder if it will implement that policy in the King James Authorised Version during its
remaining time in office. So far not one of the loans promised in that policy has been
granted.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Not one loan?
Squadron Leader DRAYTON: Not one loan has been granted to any serviceman who
has completed 12 years's service. I support the National Party's policy as it appears in that
King James Authorised Version because, after all, it should encourage our servicemen to
seek a long-term career in the armed forces.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: But King James is dead, like the Labour Party.


## p. 2188 (#644) ###########################################

2188
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Sqaudron Leader DRAYTON: The Prime Minister will have his opportunity to speak
later on this evening. I am sure, from the happy mood he appears to be in, that he will make
a pretty effective contribution then, but I should like him to let me have my say at the
moment.
I now turn to a slightly different topic. It is one that I do not think has been raised in the
Budget debate, and certainly it was not mentioned in the Address in Reply debate earlier
this session. I want to further a very strong desire of the member for Henderson, who on a
number of occasions has spoken about the failure of imprisonment for first offenders, and
the failure of imprisonment in general, as a means of rehabilitation. I must acknowledge,
because after all I am a reasonably fair man, that the Minister of Justice has also spoken
about this recently. I want to relate to the House a true story to illustrate the failure of
imprisonment. When I was at primary school I had a classmate-
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The year before last?
Squadron Leader DRAYTON: Yes, my education is still continuing. However, I
propose to relate the story of a classmate of mine at primary school. We raided orchards
together, but I could run faster than he could, and he was often caught. As a result he gained
the reputation of being a bad boy and I, rather fortuitously, had the reputation of being a
well behaved boy. I shall call my friend Jamie for the sake of anonymity. When he went to
high school he was caught thieving cigarettes from corner dairies several times, and now and
again he appeared before the children's court. On occasions he was placed in the care of
child welfare homes. From those homes he graduated to minor cases of burglary, and when
he was about 17 he was sentenced to borstal. While there, he learned to be a better burglar,
and on his discharge from borstal he carried out a number of burglaries—and I must
acknowledge that he was a pretty good burglar.
When Jamie was about 20 he was sentenced to 2 years' imprisonment, and while in
prison he learned to become a safe-cracker. I think the term used among criminals is "tank
man", which indicates one of the highest levels in the criminal world. He was a fairly
successful tank man too, but of course the inevitable happened and he was caught and
convicted on several safe-cracking offences. I must acknowledge that he was never
apprehended for some of the tank jobs he did, to his eternal boast. But after repeated
sentences and terms of imprisonment Jamie became somewhat institutionalised; he never
became rehabilitated. He is now a sad case of a middle-aged man, completely institutional-
ised, who rolls cars for people as an occupation. I believe he charges about $25 a time for
rolling cars beyond economical repair so that the owners can collect the insurance money. If
Jamie had not gone to borstal in the first place but had received perhaps a sentence of
periodic detention he could well have been a very useful member of society. Therefore I
commend to the Minister of Justice the programme initiated by my colleague the member for
Henderson, seeking alternative forms of punishment by which offenders' debts to society can
be repaid.
I turn now to housing. During the term of the National Government there have been
two Ministers of Housing, neither of whom has been able to grapple with the problems. In
the 1950s we enjoyed a series of books and films, that had some fleeting popularity, albeit
fairly frothy stuff. They were about a fictional character called Mr Blandings-"Mr Bland-
ings Builds his Dream House", and so on-who was a dreamer; something like the present
Minister of Housing, I should say. It seems to me that the Minister is blandly building dream
houses and telling young couples that they can save $12,000 in 3 years—“and you just might
get a Housing Corporation loan". I think his proposal that young couples, by sacrifice, could
save $12,000 in 3 years and then have their dream house was inspired by the National Party's
dream factory-its research unit. The Minister has been badly hooked on it and has now
desperately to defend it.
I have retained the National Party's housing policy pamphlet of the 1975
campaign—you know, "New Zealand the way you want it". On the front of the pamphlet is
a fairly good picture of the then spokesman on housing, now the Minister of Energy
Resources, peering from a television screen. I wonder if he was offered any Hollywood
contracts after that appearance. But here it is: "Housing: The full text of the National Party's
programme on housing, now showing on TV1 and TV2." It is complete with the National
Party's symbol, and I must say once again that to me that symbol looks curiously like a
hooded cobra. What are some of the statements in the National Party's TV pamphlet on
housing? In retrospect they are most interesting. "National will introduce a totally new deal
in home finance. First, we will encourage people to lend mortgage money. The National
Government will guarantee loans of up to 90 percent for long-term mortgages. The new


## p. 2189 (#645) ###########################################

16 August
2189
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
National Government is going to do a lot more than just build houses; we are going to build
decent communities and give every New Zealander the chance to live in them." And those
statements are guaranteed because, after all, the pamphlet containing them is signed
"George Gair, National Party spokesman on housing".
On the Opposition benches are many experts on housing, but it seems certain that the
Government will not take any advice that is available from this side of the House, or indeed
any that is available from the housing commission. I urge the Minister of Housing, for whom
I have a very high respect—perhaps not for his achievements in the housing field, but as a
person to ensure that the Government continues the programme established by the third
Labour Government. I can hear the Minister of Housing trying to have his say. He can shout
as much as he likes. I can shout louder than he can.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I bet you can't.
Squadron Leader DRAYTON: I bet I can. This Government must continue the
programme established by the third Labour Government for the acquisition of dwelling
sites. In 1971, under a National Government, 147 dwelling sites were purchased; in 1972,
under a National Government, 609 were purchased; in 1973, the first full year of the Labour
Government, 827 were purchased; in 1974, because of the initiative of my colleague the
member for St. Kilda, that figure was increased to 9116; and in 1975, the last year of the third
Labour Government, 15 000 dwelling sites were purchased.
Now compare some of the housing achievements of the third Labour Government with
some of the lesser achievements of the National Government. For every 10 loans granted for
new houses in 1975 this Government granted 7 in the last financial year; for every 10 loans
granted for existing houses in 1975 this Government granted only 6 in the last financial year;
for every 10 loans given for refinancing in the 1975 financial year, this Government granted
only 4 in 1976. It is no surprise that forced sales in 1976 were the highest since 1971 and 1972.
For every 10 family benefit capitalisations in the 1975 financial year, this Government
granted only 4 in the year just ended.
Low-income supplements have been more than halved, and almost $80 million has been
chopped off urban lending. The number of loans for new houses for the March year 1976
amounted to 11 759, while for the March year 1977 the figure was 8421-a reduction of 28
percent. Loans to purchase homes for the March year 1976 amounted to 3701, while for the
March year 1977 the figure was 2199-a reduction of 41 percent. Loans for the refinancing of
houses for the March year 1976 amounted to 368; for the March year 1977 the figure was
only 138, 63 percent lower. Family benefit capitalisations for the March year 1976 amounted
to 6012; for the March year 1977 there were 2238, a reduction of 63 percent. The number of
low-income supplements for the March year 1976 was 7172, while for the March year 1977
the figure was 3905, 56 percent fewer. Total urban lending for the March year 1976 was just
on $250 million; for the March year 1977 it was $169 million, a reduction of 32 percent.
In conclusion, I should like to refer to the proposed town of Rolleston, a concept that I
entirely support. Rolleston must proceed, particularly in view of the recent flooding in
Christchurch. Some claim that 6000 building sections are available in Christchurch, but I
strongly urge people not to build on those sections. So great has been the urban growth that
with every house built and every strip of concrete laid the ponding area is being drastically
reduced. We used to hear talk about the 50-year rains when Christchurch would be flooded.
Those 50-year rains have now become annual rains with people in St. Albans, Mairehau,
Sydenham, Spreydon, Hoon Hay, and Opawa being flooded three and four times every two
years, and to such an extent that they have become insurance risks and are finding it hard to
get their properties and effects reinsured. The urban build-up in Christchurch has created
tremendous drainage problems. Added to that has been the lack of local body finance, and
the freeze on local body loans. An additional danger affects an area in Christchurch bounded
by the Cranford Street extension, North Road, Marshland Road, and the Styx River. It is
known as the Waimairi potato ward, but it might not be able to produce vegetables for much
longer. This Government has 460 days to go, and that is 460 days too many.
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence): In his opening remarks the member
for St. Albans called this a Mark IV Budget. I tell the member that the Mark IV Jaguar was
the best motorcar its company ever produced. From the member's speech it appears this
Budget is the equal of the Mark IV Jaguar.
We all agree about disarmament, but it is no good for a small country such as New
Zealand to start it off. The major powers have to make the move. At present the Russians
are launching one nuclear-powered submarine every six weeks. As long as they are doing
that there is not much point in our talking about disarmament.


## p. 2190 (#646) ###########################################

2190
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
The member mentioned simulators for the RNZAF at a cost of $5 million. Labour Party
members are so benevolent when in Opposition; that is when they have no trouble finding $5
million. Why did they not produce the simulators in the 3 years they were the Government?
After all, they produced nothing else! The member also mentioned buildings for defence
personnel. I remind him that $10.1 million was spent in 1974-75, the last year of the Labour
Government-a year in which building costs doubled; this year the amount will be $16.4
million, and next year $21.4 million, going up to $28.1 million. Those are the facts. The
Labour Government talked about simulators and Andover aircraft, but did nothing about
them. It thought about a police college but made no financial provision.
Hon. W. A. Fraser; It did.
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: No provision was made and it is no good the member
saying it was. Members opposite agreed in principle, but not one cent was voted for the
police college, and the member knows it. Members opposite also thought about Post Office
and Railway charges, but did nothing. They thought about police communications equip-
ment, but did nothing. Then they thought about broadcasting and television-and what a
thought that was. When this party became the Government it had to find $40 million to get
those thoughts out of the minds of members opposite. In all the years I have been in the
House this has been the weakest attack on any Budget I have heard. So much was it so that
the Leader of the Opposition put all his democratic socialists to sleep. They were all snoring
soundly while the leader of the democratic socialists carried on.
I know this Budget has been a great disappointment to the Labour Opposition, which
was convinced that no concessions could be made to the people. Labour predicted that the
country could not afford national superannuation, but it has been brought in successfully and
next year the rate will be 80 percent of the average weekly wage. Not one Opposition
speaker has mentioned Labour's wonderful scheme, which would have cost every employee
$3.24 a week, and which between 1977 and 1979 would have cost an estimated $168 million.
It is very easy to be benevolent in Opposition. The Leader of the Opposition said the
Government should not continue with a tax scale that took 40c in the dollar from a person
earning slightly more than the average wage. Let us have a look at that. The average weekly
wage is $118, and to reach the tax rate of 40c in the dollar a person must earn $324 a week.
The Leader of the Opposition said it was the person on the average weekly wage who was on
that tax rate, but in fact the person on that tax rate earns almost three times the average
wage. That is the sort of rubbish the Opposition is putting across.
Opposition speakers have become very frustrated, and are making some wild and
woolly statements. I quote the member for Grey Lynn. In Napier on 21 February he said:
"For the Minister of Health, Mr Gill, to suggest putting a charge on doctors' prescriptions
for drugs in the same week that the Minister of Defence, Mr McCready, suggested that New
Zealand give military help to Thailand, typified the ugly face of the National Govern ment..
For Mr McCready to be discussing this week with the top-level visiting Thai
military delegation, ways and means of getting New Zealand involved in another military
adventure in South-east Asia, was surely the height of madness." When I was in Thailand
last year I had talks with the Thai Government and, as we always do, offered assistance to
countries in South-east Asia. I told the Thai Government to send a responsible team to have
a look at our establishments and to indicate how we could help them. TV1 reported that
these high-pressure top-line Thai officers crept in in the silence of night to make arrange-
ments. Only two military personnel were involved and they had discussions with our defence
people to see how New Zealand could assist them with their training; and I believe two or
three NCOs might be coming out here for a training course.
Opposition members have also said that our skills are being exported. The Navy
recently had some vacancies because some of its trained personnel had left. Authority was
received from the Government to recruit 62 people from the United Kingdom. A small
article appeared in a British newspaper, and 480 inquiries were received before one
advertisement had been run. I was told the other day that 638 inquiries had been received in
response to one advertisement. Opposition members should talk about subjects on which
they are knowledgeable.
I want now to talk about my other portfolio, and first to pay well deserved tribute to the
work of the New Zealand Police. As citizens we have become accustomed to the low-key and
efficient manner in which the police maintain law and stability. Everyone should be proud
that the combination of personal qualities and thorough training and professionalism has
resulted in a very high standard of work. In recent months the police have been subjected to
adverse publicity. Brickbats have been thrown thick and fast, and one could be excused for


## p. 2191 (#647) ###########################################

16 August
2191
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
thinking that some form of smear campaign is under way. Despite this, nobody could fail to
notice that there has been no flagging of the service given. Twenty-four hours a day, 7 days a
week the police continue to give a very professional crisis intervention service as well as a
wide range of specialised help.
In peak periods police patrols move from one human crisis to another, working in an
environment of lust, hate, greed, deceit, anger, and frustration. Unlike the ordinary citizen,
the police cannot step back behind the cordon lines. They do not have the luxury of walking
out, and they must go right in head first, often against very heavy odds. On our behalf they
must act to resolve whatever situation may arise. Policemen often find themselves on the
horns of a dilemma. One party is bound to be dissatisfied with the way the problem is
resolved. Logically the policeman must decide in favour of one point of view. He cannot take
sides, but in most cases must make a decision on the spot. Much later, in the peace of a living
room, the warmth of a hotel bar, or in the calm atmosphere of a court room the constable's
actions will be judged. Armchair critics, law abiding or otherwise, will draw their own
conclusions-objectively or subjectively. Others in more formal arenas armed with clear
hindsight, full statements, testimony, and expert opinions will subject the snap judgment to
the most searching post-mortem. Eventually the quick decision could be tested in the Court
of Appeal, or even the Privy Council, and it is perhaps surprising that most withstand such
withering scrutiny. That they do vindicates the training of the police and the quality of their
judgment.
New Zealand is very well served by its police service. To prove my point, I draw on the
1 100 000 cases that have been handled in the last 5 years by a national strength that has only
recently reached 4500. This volume of reported crime has kept the police very busy, yet not
only have they coped, but they have also recorded one of the highest detection rates in the
Western World. In considering this volume of crime, I ask members to reflect for a moment
on the potential for criticism of a service that functions day and night, day in and day out,
dealing with the world's worst vices. Consider also the risks policemen run of being assaulted
and insulted, and the number of enemies they make, however illogical that may be. Yet New
Zealand policemen have managed to function within the community for 91 years without
generating the real animosity that is obvious in some other countries. Work-load studies
show that some 60 percent of jobs attended by police patrols are of a social rather than an
enforcement nature. Recent attempts to discredit the police by those with one axe or another
to grind are cause for concern and do nothing to build up police morale.
Since taking office the Government has made several important legislative changes to
assist the police and the courts to deal with certain types of crime. These include authority
for the courts to confiscate motor vehicles used by people convicted of specific crimes. When
this measure was introduced the member for Auckland Central said, "It will never happen.
There is no way it can happen." I want to tell the member for Auckland Central that it has
happened, and it has happened in Christchurch. New offences relating to disorderly conduct
and the manufacture of explosives have been dealt with.
The Government promised to give particular attention to police pay and conditions.
That promise has been honoured, and this year the police have received a pay rise of
something like 20 percent. In addition, increases in the number of allowances have been
approved. Mobility and effective communications are vital to an efficient police service, and
the Government has approved a 3-year plan to provide vehicles for all country policemen.
This is a great move, and will give safer working conditions in rural areas. Telecommunica-
tions expenditure to the tune of $767,000—the largest amount ever allocated-will counter
the activities of criminals with very sophisticated electronic communications systems. The
use of sophisticated radio equipment of the type in the new Wellington operations room will
be extended to other areas. The critical role of dog handlers will be assisted by the
installation of repeater radio systems in cars.
In the very near future the Government will make a final decision on the number of
extra police and civilian staff needed to cope with increased demands. Meanwhile, to ensure
that the facilities at the police college are fully used, approval has been given for an
additional 44 admittances to the August intake. In the first few months after taking office the
National Government increased the police staff by 183. I am particularly proud to be
associated with the police college, which will cost $19 million and, when completed early in
1981, will be the finest police college in the Western World.
I move now to the subject of juvenile crime. Last year more than 26 000 offences were
committed by 20 000 youngsters. Youngsters are regarded as those up to 14 years of age, and
young persons as those between 14 and 17. Crimes committed by those youngsters included


## p. 2192 (#648) ###########################################

2192
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
robbery, serious assault, car conversion, and a variety of sexual and liquor-related misde-
meanours. Members might ask what is being done to deal with this problem. In the police
service we have formed what are known as J teams, made up of police officers, educational-
ists, and social workers. In addition, 93 full-time and 53 part-time police youth aid officers
have been appointed throughout the country.
Early this year the youth aid section tried an experiment. It chose an intermediate
school with a disproportionate number of pupils to whom police attention had been drawn.
The school had a roll of more than 800, a wider than usual cultural and ethnic cross section,
unusual language and attitude difficulties, and an unusually high proportion of pupils from
the lower socio-economic groups. Truancy was a real problem. The headmaster's co-
operation was sought and readily obtained, and the programme commenced with a teachers'
preparation day, when the various functions of the police were explained to the school staff.
In a 6-month period, 66 children had been referred to the police, thus putting the school's
rate of juvenile crime above that of all other schools in the region. The aim of the experiment
was to exert informal influences to promote a new respect for rights, responsibilities, and
rules among those young people. The pupils were divided into easily manageable syndicates,
and the police visited the school on each of the first 5 days of the new term.
Films about the police were shown, and groups were addressed with the object of
dispelling misconceptions and prejudices. Children were invited to examine police vehicles
and equipment and encouraged to talk openly with all the police officers. On the fifth day
the school assembled to watch a spectacular police dog demonstration. After a break of 1
month, J team and youth aid members and police from the general branch visited the school
regularly to maintain pupil contact. The programme continued for 3 months, and the results
were remarkable. The rate of offending dropped from well above the average to well below
half the average. We make no wild claims of unqualified success, but the results show that
time spent in this way can substantially lower juvenile crime. I am concerned that while such
activities are going on certain television programmes undo all the good that is being done.
That experiment in Auckland reduced juvenile crime and brought the police in personal
contact with the youngsters, who realised that the police were there to help them. But I feel
very upset that these "anti" people undo all the good that has been done.
I want now to assist the member for Henderson, who asked the Minister of Justice about
a statement I made last month at the dominion conference of the National Party. He asked
for a full report of what I said.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I asked for the magistrate's comment to be provided.
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I will give it to you tonight. When I make a statement
anywhere I do not back out. I make it publicly and I do not care who listens and I do not care
whose corns I tread on, least of all the member for Henderson's. I have had hundreds of
messages from throughout the country supporting me. If people want to uphold criminals,
let them do so. What I said at the dominion conference in Dunedin was reported in full by
the press, and reported correctly. I shall repeat what I said—and again I say that I do not
care whose corns I tread on. I said that I was greatly concerned at our increasing crime rate,
and particularly crimes of violence against the people and the police. I said that some
magistrates were being too lenient with penalties, and that prison was too soft at times. I
repeat those statements, and I will make them anywhere. I do not care if civil rights people
and others disagree with me; I will still say what I mean. I know I am saying what most
people in this country are saying today. I get letters from all over the country pointing this
out.
Whenever the police try to do something in Auckland the member for Northern Maori
screams out at the top of his voice. I said that when criminals had received their full deserts
for their crimes I would be the first to do anything to assist to rehabilitate them back into
society. The only real adverse reaction came from two magistrates. Naturally they would
stick up for their friends. All the other letters have said, "God bless you". It would do the
member for Henderson's heart good to read the letters, some of which have referred to
honourable members. The most vitriolic statement was printed in the Manawatu Evening
Standard, a newspaper that has taken great pleasure in printing any material that it considers
will adversely affect me. On many occasions the newspaper has shown that its knowledge
reaches from Kairanga to Longburn. The statement I made was based on information given
me by my advisers from one end of the country to the other. If the newspaper took its head
out of the sand it would realise how much it is out of touch.
Mr MacDonell: You didn't say that a month ago.
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I have said it on many occasions, and have been saying it


## p. 2193 (#649) ###########################################

16 August
2193
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
about that newspaper for the last 17 years. If the newspaper is against the upholding of law
and order then it is swimming against the current of public opinion. A sub-leader in the
newspaper stated: "Mr McCready does it again. He completely misunderstood the pay and
conditions issue which created so much unrest in the police force." However the New
Zealand Police Journal stated: "Your executive is extremely grateful to Government (and
particularly the Minister of State Services the Hon. Mr Peter Gordon and the Hon. Mr Allan
McCready Minister of Police) for the understanding and sympathy demonstrated toward our
case." The Police Journal would know more about the pay issues than the Manawatu
Evening Standard,which stated that the Minister completely misunderstood and misread the
situation that arose after the television programme. Would any sane person support a
television programme that tried to discredit the police? As usual, TV1 had to find a criminal
for the programme, because it could not find anyone else.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Were you out of town?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I was not, and I was not with the member for Timaru
either. I could tell a story about him if I wanted to. "Now he appears to have trodden into
another territory. . ."-rehabilitation and problems with the law.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Are you getting another police report out?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I have something interesting. "It is disturbing that the
Minister's primitive remarks appear as part of a general pattern . . . and he does not really
understand the position. He must have been misreported . . .". I would place rehabilitation
outside where it clearly belongs. "You cannot rehabilitate a prisoner in gaol. Let him serve
his term, then let him out and give him everything that you can. You cannot rehabilitate in
the non-world of borstal, but when they get out I would lavish all the care I could and
provide hostels where they can come, and if they still chose to act irresponsibly I would put
them straight back in borstal in solitary confinement and repeat the same medicine until they
got sick of it." That is not the opinion of the Manawatu Evening Standard, but the opinion of
Father Tom Keyes, the retiring chaplain of the Invercargill borstal. Every statement that I
have made has been supported by responsible people. Time does not permit me to say what I
had wanted to say about the police.
In conclusion I say that the Budget has proved that the Government has been able to
come to grips with the economic situation. It has implemented its promise about superannu-
ation. Industrial matters have still to be attended to and policy matters are still to be
introduced. No candidate on the hustings told the people that a National Government would
complete its programme in 1 year. The member for St. Albans said that the Government has
460 days left to govern. What a glorious 460 days for the people of New Zealand.
MARILYN WARING (Raglan): It is a privilege to follow a colleague in this debate, for
to follow an Opposition member in the Budget debate is to believe that the Opposition has
not recently held the Treasury benches. Listening to Opposition speakers brings to mind
Miss Prism's direction to Cecily in Wilde's The Importance of Being Earnest, when she said:
"You will read your political economy in my absence. The chapter on the fall of the rupee
you may omit. It is somewhat too sensational. Even these metallic problems have their
melodramatic side."
This evening I should like to address myself to the traditional constitutional reason for a
wide-ranging debate on the second reading of the Appropriation Bill. The Budget debate
has traditionally been a means whereby Parliament and individual members of Parliament
have the opportunity to express and ventilate grievances before voting public money to the
Crown. With due respect to all present, the debate has in many stages become a tired litany,
a game played within the precincts of this building with little relationship to the reality
beyond. The 1977 Budget has been called "a hold-the-line Budget" and "a Kentucky
gambler's Budget". The debate has been of a short-term outlook; a hindsighted survey-a
comparison of the last 4 or 5 years, and a looking back.
While current economic consumption is largely the consequence of past efforts,
economic activity is future-oriented. May I say to all in the House: you are representatives of
the present and the future, not the past. What I say tonight is said as an elected
representative, not as a delegate of the Raglan electorate. It is also said as a representative of
more than half the New Zealand population aged under 35. I want to speak of the future, of
the challenges of a decade hence, for the public money voted in 1977 has consequences far
beyond my holding a seat and the National Government's holding the Government benches
in a year.
I speak in the context of the following quote in the foreword of a book called The Death
of British Democracy by Stephen Hassler. It is sour grapes, perhaps, because Hassler was a
21-Vol. 412


## p. 2194 (#650) ###########################################

2194
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
never-successful Labour candidate in many British general elections, and is by no means an
authority. I use his words not as an indictment of any member here, but as something for
every member to ponder. Mr Hassler said, "The modern politician becomes so enmeshed in
the administrative bureaucracy and party machine and so dependent upon them that to reach
out beyond the hollow political rhetoric that sustains and justifies his existence is to risk his
career and to sour his relationships. Consequently very few politicians will ever raise the
political debate to a level that will disturb the smooth running of the political machine. In
this environment ideas become awkward and indeed subversive. Rigorous application of
ideas to politics will for the practising politician often lead to a clash with the machine, which
he will normally lose. Today's successful politician works the machine irrespective of the
direction in which it is going and he effectively removes himself from politics. The man of
ideas removes himself from office."
It has seemed to me in listening to this debate that the problem is that while we all
intellectualise and philosophise very few members internalise. We all know the clichés and
expect to apply them to our neighbours and not to ourselves. The crux of the Budget and the
economic situation is the realisation that it means you and not the guy next door. A parrot
can be turned into a learned political economist by learning the words "supply and demand".
Ours is a mixed economy in which public and private institutions exercise economic control.
Our competitive price system uses supply-demand markets to solve the basic economic
problems of what, how, and for whom. The next decade will see no change in our nation's
subjectivity to the primary economic laws.
First, there is the law of economic scarcity that is so prevalent in the energy resource
field and the land use field where there is only a finite amount of human and non-human
resources. Secondly, there is the law of production possibility and of substitution, which
means so much in terms of an examination of our agricultural potential and diversity of
markets. Thirdly, there is the law of diminishing returns where, after a point, the extra
output resulting from the additional input becomes proportionately less and less. Fourthly,
there is the law of increasing relative costs.
Of crucial importance in all these laws is the relationship of population growth to fixed
resources. The Holmes task force report concluded that New Zealand is in a period of "high
turbulence", which makes it difficult for society or decision makers to understand fully the
changes that are occurring. In order to improve the position, those who have to think about
their direction and rate of adjustment in social policies will need to understand the dynamic
nature of the changes that are taking place. The foreword to the guide to the National Party
election manifesto in 1975, published as a pictorial manifesto, contained this sentence:
"Social progress can only be made in a healthy economy." I have no quarrel with that, but if
there is no appreciation of the nature of the changes that are taking place socially there will
be a tendency-and there is evidence of this in the Budget-to try to maintain the status quo
when it has been found wanting.
I refer in particular to the budgetary moves on the domestic purposes benefit. Questions
that must be tackled are, for example: are the closely related problems of educational
underachievement, truancy, vandalism, and juvenile offending primarily the concern of the
Department of Education, the Department of Social Welfare, the Police, or the Ministry of
Recreation and Sport; will the State Services Commission be able to clarify whether the
Department of Education or the Department of Social Welfare is primarily responsible for
the development of child care facilities? I said that our main resource, people, was one of the
chief factors in our economic future. Some projections can and should be made realistically,
no matter how much they offend the status quo. Although our potential labour force will
continue to grow for some years, our lowest ever fertility rate is heading quite seriously for a
zero population growth, with the average rate of increase now less than 0.3 percent. Our
population will have proportionately fewer young people and more elderly people.
There is a vital need to study the economic and social implications of an ageing
population; the possible re-allocation of resources between services-for example, from
education to geriatric needs. The pre-school component of the population is decreasing, but
it will increase again towards the end of the century. The expansion of the school-leaving
population and of those leaving the labour force will not be great in the next decade, but will
rise towards the end of the century. Expansion of the newly married age group will be high in
the next decade, but will fall off in the late 1980s and 1990s. The rate of expansion in the
dependent sector-persons over 60 years of age-will be extremely high. I have no desire to
enter the partisan bickering about the superannuation scheme, but at my age I must confess
to some fear that, projected 20 or 30 years, I and my generation will not be able to afford the


## p. 2195 (#651) ###########################################

16 August
2195
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
cost of the care and income-maintenance of all those over 60. I know my colleague the
Associate Minister of Finance will hasten to assure me that we have a potential labour force
growth and sufficient tax take to pay for the scheme, but that labour force growth will be
involved in job sharing, part-timing, glide-timing, and competing at every level against the
pressure to mechanise and automate. Assisted by improvements in medical science, the
numbers of those over 60 will keep growing.
We can look to a rapid increase in two-income families, and to the pressure of the
universality of income maintenance programmes that will produce the development of a
possible alternative strategy in income-maintenance and redistribution fields. It is not a
question of your old men dreaming dreams and your young men seeing visions. The
questions have important implications for future policies in terms of the provision of health
services, particularly for geriatric care.
There are implications for the allocation of money for education, particularly pre-school
education, and I congratulate the Minister of Education on the tremendous boost the Budget
has given that sector. The emphasis is on the children who are unlikely to be able to attend a
play centre or kindergarten, the two pre-school services already assisted by the Government.
The number of community pre-school workers will be increased from 3 to 18, and they will
work in localities where parents need help, or with existing services, or form their own small
groups if these are more appropriate. A number of new pre-school classes for children with a
special need for early education will be established within primary schools. To make the best
possible use of suitable premises and primary schools, it is proposed that accommodation
should be made available for free kindergartens and play centres on conditions agreed to by
controlling authorities of the schools and pre-school groups. It is estimated that this will
provide opportunities for early childhood education to another 8000 children, many of whom
live in remote areas where standard education, kindergarten, and play-centre facilities are
difficult to provide.
Policies for the future need knowledge of family planning methods, and I congratulate
the New Zealand Family Planning Association on its work, and note the increase of $50,000
in the grant to the association for the coming year. We need to take a realistic look at
housing demands, especially in terms of the use of available stocks, the use of land, and
urban renewal. Here I vent my disappointment that the amount allocated through the
Housing Corporation for urban renewal and planning grants remains at the same level as last
year. We need to look at changing needs associated with life cycle changes, and the special
needs of aged people. We must look at the demand for services, for urban development and
improvement, and we must hold the rate of inflation and diminish our overseas debt to
sustain full employment and price stability in a mixed economy. We must come to grips with
discrimination on the grounds of race and sex. Alvin Hansen has remarked that if a careful
calculation of the gross national product were made over the last 10 000 years, in most places
and times it would probably be found that women produced more than half of the real gross
national product. To overcome many of these attitudinal difficulties there is still a great deal
to do.
The 1977 Budget presents many challenges for the development of potential in the
decade ahead. Many will affect the Raglan electorate. Possibly the most important is energy,
where strategy is to be directed towards reducing the reliance on imported oil and
accelerating the development of indigenous resources. While local hydro schemes are
unlikely to develop in my electorate, the consequences of accelerated coal exploration are of
enormous importance to the future of Huntly. Another $60 million will be spent by the
Government next year on the Huntly power project, and more will be spent on mining
development in the area. Construction is going ahead on a new mechanised mine at Huntly
at an estimated cost of $80 million and the first coal production is scheduled for the middle of
1978. However, the limited extraction rates of present mining technology have caused
further development of mining in this area to be postponed until we can be assured of a
better extraction percentage.
In the meantime an intensified programme of coal exploration and drilling is nearing
completion. The environmental and social consequences of any decision to further promote
coal in this region will have to be very seriously considered, but we have given ourselves
some space, some time, and some experiment to give the broadest possible view of future
options. I refer in particular to the accelerated geothermal investigation programme, the
accelerated coal exploration programme, on-shore and off-shore petroleum exploration, the
programme for domestic use of Maui gas, compulsory home insulation, and the North
Shore-Auckland car-pooling experiment.
21.


## p. 2196 (#652) ###########################################

2196
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
The coming decade presents many challenges to the farming industry: to increase
production, to diversify, and to compete for A1 arable farm land against the expanding
urban acres of reinforced concrete and glass. The farmers of the Raglan electorate will meet
those challenges because they are of the calibre of young Keith Holmes from Cambridge
who recently won the Young Farmer of the Year award, and who in his essay for that award
spoke more common sense on agriculture than I have heard for a long time. This Budget
challenges young men and women like him through the livestock incentive scheme, and
through the promise to look at the possibility of developing productivity incentives as an
alternative to incentives for increasing livestock numbers. Amounts available for lending to
young farmers have been increased, and 55 farms are up for ballot in the coming year.
Rural depopulation has been a problem in the Raglan electorate for some years for,
while we heartily invest money in agricultural production for the rurally isolated, we slowly
deprive them of their social needs. We close their small schools and their rural Post Offices,
and consequently the store and the garage go too. The access roads deteriorate, and morale
drops as the farm worker, 3 miles from the end of the school bus route, packs up and moves
to town. The innovation in the Budget to assist farm owners building or acquiring dwellings
in townships near the farms for occupation by the farm workers is most welcome.
I think the minds of most of us boggle at the possibilities opened up and the challenges
that confront us by the establishment of the 200-mile economic zone around New Zealand.
The next decade for fishing will be expensive, and courage will be needed to maximise
options. Suspensory loans equal to 40 percent of the cost of construction will be made
available to owners of fishing vessels built in New Zealand shipyards. To assist my
generation of young, well qualified fishermen to obtain their first fishing vessel, a special
lending scheme that will provide loans of up to 80 percent of the cost of a vessel will be
introduced. The loan limits on Rural Bank financial assistance for fishing gear are removed,
a fishing vessel ownership savings scheme is introduced, and a development grant fund for
research into new fisheries and alternative processing techniques has been established.
It has been said that knowledge is the only instrument of production that is not subject
to diminishing returns. Perhaps paraphrased in the light of the Budget it might be said that
research is one of the few investments that is relatively inflation-proofed. This Budget sees
an increase of 15 percent in the vote for agricultural science research, 22 percent in the vote
for fisheries science research, and 13 percent in the vote for the Department of Scientific and
Industrial Research, bringing expenditure on these areas of research to $37 million. We have
an increase of 29 percent on the amount expended in the last financial year for the National
Research Advisory Council, and a 31 percent increase in the Defence vote for science
research.
A new item of $500,000 is voted for energy research and development under the
Ministry of Energy Resources vote, $1,380,000 as a new programme in the Education vote is
provided for research purposes, and there is a 15 percent increase for research in the Works
and Development vote. In the New Zealand Forest Service, provision for research accounts
for 5.7 percent of the department's total expenditure, and an additional 18 percent is voted
for medical science under the Health vote. There is a 46 percent increase in Programme I
under the Treasury vote for economic and financial policy and planning. Grants under Trade
and Industry for assistance to industry for research have dropped, probably because the total
vote last year was not spent.
The underdeveloped state of social research and social statistics in New Zealand is
deplorable. In the same Budget in which $3,055 million, or nearly half the total amount, is
expended on three votes-Social Welfare, Education, and Health—the vote for the Depart-
ment of Statistics and for research in this area has been reduced. Certainly a drop was
expected because it is not census year, but the department is now being asked to handle pay
research, an economic census, and a profile of the New Zealand family for the Cabinet
committee on family affairs. For too long this department has had insufficient staff,
insufficient services, and insufficient attention. The poor state of social research is one of the
key impediments to the development of coherent social policies in New Zealand.
I began my speech by declaring that I would discuss the traditional reasons for this
debate. I have aired grievances and congratulations. I have tried to look forward in an
attempt to echo the sentiments of one of the concluding statements in the Budget: “. . . we
can all think of tomorrow and not try to take what we can today".
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): It is not often that one has an opportunity to say that
one agrees with almost 80 percent of what the honourable member for Raglan said about the
Government's performance and the Budget put before the House nearly 4 weeks ago. One


## p. 2197 (#653) ###########################################

16 August
2197
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
or two of her remarks, however, are worthy of comment. First, she said that she felt-and
she comes from a generation that is, in fact, a bit disillusioned with the generation in
power-that ideas are unwelcome in the parliamentary environment.
Mr Birch: She didn't.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Or that they are unpopular amongst politicians.
Mr Birch: That's not true.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Well, I think that was the meaning of it.
Mr Birch: It was a quotation.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: No, I am not talking about the quotation. If the honourable
member is being seriously misquoted, I should be glad if she would indicate it. Whatever
words she used, she suggested that ideas seemed to be unwelcome.
Marilyn Waring: I was quoting Mr Stephen Hassler, a Labour candidate.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I am quoting the honourable lady, and, since she mentioned it,
I take it she supports it.
Marilyn Waring: Certainly.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Now we have got that clear. I should have known not to argue
with a woman; it is always too noisy. Nevertheless, I want to disabuse her of that particular
view. I do not think members of Parliament frown on ideas at all; I think they test them and
argue about them. They are not always right about them, but we should encourage—and I
think we do encourage people to have a different point of view and to put ideas forward. In
fact, procedures in the House enable people to do that by way of question, notice of motion,
or a private member's Bill. I hope that, as a young parliamentarian, she will not be too
disheartened by the quotation she read to the House. Part of the whole parliamentary
procedure is to persist if you believe you are right. I hope she will persist in some of the ideas
she advanced tonight.
The debate is getting a bit thin, but there are one or two bright spots that ought to be
referred to. First, the fishing package is in the right direction. There is no question about
that, and I hope that we will do more and more, and become a little more adventurous,
perhaps, in that area. I commend the Government nor that trend. I agree with its proposal to
pursue on-shore oil exploration; I think it is a splendid idea. It will not be easy to do, and it
will be costly. I do not think that many private organisations would be able to go it alone,
although no doubt some of them will be involved in the work. I hope they are. As it is a
bright spot in the Budget, I think it ought to be mentioned. One could always argue that too
little has been done about energy research, but we have begun, and we must continue the
work.
I am not so keen about the transport package. Some more information is still to come
about that. However, until I know the on-charges proposed for the extra mileage that can be
run, it seems to me that the large operator rather than the small operator will be helped.
Also, the provision could be injurious to the railways. Until we know what the on-charge is,
we cannot really make an objective judgment about the package. The Minister seems very
keen about it, and I am looking forward to hearing the further details so that we can see if
the proposal is in the country's best interest. During this debate, most speakers have
attempted to give a label to the Budget.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Just call it good.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I think it is a sad Budget. Let me quote the last sentence at the
bottom of page 1, and take honourable members' minds back to the last general election and
and the months immediately before it: "Unless the action of the United States in allowing its
current account to move sharply into deficit is continued and followed by others, New
Zealand's efforts to adjust its economy towards exporting will encounter increasing difficul-
ties."
Dr Shearer: Read page 32.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Obviously, page 1 has a priority, and that sentence was on page
1. What it says is that, unless other people are prepared to live beyond their export income,
New Zealand will not have any. The Labour Government was criticised for endeavouring to
do that and to keep people in full employment. That was one of the most effective bits of
electioneering I have ever seen since I became a parliamentarian. I draw attention to it
simply because it is a fact of life, and no one can deny that that is what happened. Last year,
there was an increase of $1 billion in our overseas earnings. The Budget is a sad one, because
it faces facts as they are, not as they appeared in the National Party brochures and
pamphlets.
Mr Latter: Read page 5.


## p. 2198 (#654) ###########################################

2198
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I mention table 13. The Prime Minister will recall the very
eloquent speeches he made up and down the country about the level of the Labour
Government's overseas borrowing. It was very effective stuff, but what has happened? At 31
March 1975, the overseas debt was $862.7 million. Two years later-or 18 or 19 months since
this Government has been in office-at 31 March 1977, the overseas debt totalled $1,826
million, or nearly $1 billion more. That is a record. The Labour Government never owed as
much money, yet it was thrown out of office for borrowing $1 billion less.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: We are borrowing to pay the interest on what the Labour
Government borrowed.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: If the Government is borrowing to pay back interest, the
situation is worse than I thought. Let us talk about taxation.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Whose tax table?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: The one in the Budget.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Whose tax table?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: The same tax table, I concede that. If the taxes are too high,
why have they not been cut?
Mr D. M. J. Jones: They have been.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: If the tax rates the Government is operating—
Mr SPEAKER: Order! There are far too many zealous and continuous interjections
from one source.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: If the tax rates are too high, why have they not been cut?
Mr D. M. J. Jones: They have been.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: At 31 March 1975, the amount totalled $2.86 billion.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! When I reprove a member for excessive interjections and he
forthwith starts again I think he is behaving very poorly. I shall not identify him this time, but
I will next time. He will remain silent for some time.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: For the first time, the estimated total taxation has gone beyond
$4 billion, and if the present inflation rate continues there is a good chance that it will be
more than $5 billion. If the impact of inflation on taxation revenue continues, which, in turn,
affects the family and the social life of the family and those people who work
overtime which we need for our productivity—then, as the member for Raglan said, we are
in real trouble. The impact of taxation on the families I represent in Roskill is considerable,
and needs attention. I think that, before long, even the Government will recognise that. I
know members opposite will say that the Government has given relief to families with
children under 10 years. It has given about $80 million, but has collected another $740
million, or a ratio of 9:1. That is the highest taxation on record, and in 2 years shows an
increase of nearly 2:1, which is very serious. There is another record that has an impact on
the family; the Budget was presented shortly after the highest ever increase in the cost of
living for one quarter. I know that the increases for the two preceding quarters were lower.
A wage increase is to come. There was a price freeze earlier, but we have the promise of
increased Government charges, which will place a burden on families in Roskill and
throughout the country. The Government was going to solve the problem of industrial
stoppages. I understand that the Russian dancers are performing in Wellington tonight. It is
interesting to recall that during the last election campaign they performed on the television
screen in cartoon form to cast doubts on the loyalty of thousands of trade unionists and other
New Zealanders fighting for their families and their union membership. What happened
after the change of Government? With the imposition of penalties, and all the other things
with which we are unfamiliar, we had, in 1976, the worst industrial period for a quarter of a
century. So there was no solution then, and there is none now.
We have an unenviable record in emigration—another matter referred to indirectly by
the member for Raglan, who talked about the shrinking work force and the burden on her
generation imposed by the increasing number of elderly people. The manufacturers are
disturbed, because workers are also consumers, and if there are too few workers there are
too few consumers. If we do not have a strong and effective basis in the domestic economy,
there is little hope for us in exporting manufactured goods. Even the employers have
commented on the loss of 20 000 people. I am talking about workers—those directly
engaged, not their families; and in the skills we are losing lies our survival. Those skills
would increase our productivity. All the management and administration in the world
produces nothing until a worker adds value to raw material or the commodity or product.
This is a serious matter, and we have to do something to hold those people here,
notwithstanding the fact that we have embarrassing levels of unemployment. If we added the


## p. 2199 (#655) ###########################################

16 August
2199
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
total of those we have exported, which is 20 000, to the unemployment figure of 15 000, we
would be in very serious trouble indeed.
Regional development stopped for a year, but the Government has now come back to
Labour's policy. The Gleneagles Agreement is another example of coming back to Labour's
policy, and I commend the Government for that. It is never easy for a party to alter its
position, but the fact is that people who have sporting contacts with South Africa do not now
enjoy the support of the Government-and that is exactly where I stand on the issue.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Did you cancel the tour?
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Which tour?
Mr D. M. J. Jones: The 1973 tour.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Yes, I did.
Mr Christie: You were told to keep quiet, so keep quiet.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I was opposed to it, and it would not come about now, because
the Prime Minister would be opposed to it. I came to the policy just somewhat earlier than
my National Party colleagues on the other side of the House.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. Someone on the other
side of the House-I think it was the member for Napier-said, "You were told to keep
quiet, so keep quiet." Of course, on this occasion he was correct to tell us to keep quiet, but I
wonder if you would give members on this side of the House just a little bit of latitude,
because if we do keep quiet during this speech we shall all go to sleep. I think it would be
appropriate if we had the normal indulgence of rare and reasonable interjections, as the
matter has been raised and we have been told we must keep quiet. I do not think it would be
in the best interests of Parliament if we did keep quiet during this particular speech, because
it would not be good to see us all asleep, would it?
Hon. R. J. Tizard: I could comment on the way the Prime Minister raised the point of
order. However, I do not propose to dwell on it, but simply draw your attention to the fact
that the member for Napier was reminding another member that he was warned he was
likely to be named if he interjected any further. That particular member had interjected
repeatedly, and I think the member for Napier was entirely correct in making the interjec-
tion he did.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Mr Deputy Speaker, you were not in the chair when this
happened, but he was not warned that he was liable to be named.
Hon. Members: He was so.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: No such warning was given. All Mr Speaker said was, "I do
not propose to identify the person on this occasion." That was not a warning that he was to
be named. It is very rare in the House that a member is named, and we were far from that on
this occasion. But since the member for Napier, who obviously was listening-he nods his
head, he was listening, and that is worth noting-when Mr Speaker made this comment,
seems disposed to rely on this ruling, I should like you to rule that the normal rare and
reasonable interjections are permitted, because it really is a rather soporific speech, and I
should not want my people to go to sleep, as Labour members did when the Leader of the
Opposition was speaking in the debate.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I cannot permit that sort of discussion to continue on a
point of order.
Mr Christie: Obviously the Prime Minister was asleep when Mr Speaker rebuked the
member concerned.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The Prime Minister was not asleep.
Mr Christie: Obviously he was asleep, because Mr Speaker had to call for order twice,
and asked the member to desist from his interjections. He did say that, if there were any
more interjections from that member, he would take the unusual step of naming him. The
member is defying the rules of the Chair, even though you, Mr Deputy Speaker, are now in
the chair and Mr Speaker was before.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: I think it is important that you should be correctly informed.
Mr Christie: That's right, he was.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: I beg to differ.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I would be better informed more quickly if members
were to hear in silence other members who are speaking to the point of order. We would all
hear much better.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: At no time during his intervention did Mr Speaker use the
words, "I will take the unusual step of naming the honourable member." The word
"naming" was never used. What Mr Speaker said was, "If it is necessary I will identify the


## p. 2200 (#656) ###########################################

2200
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
honourable member." There is a world of difference between identifying and naming, and I
think it is important you should recognise that.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! I do not need any further assistance on this point of
order. Members are, of course, entitled to be heard in silence, and if a member who is
speaking feels that the level of interjection is more than he is prepared to accept then I, if I
am in the chair, will see to it that that Speaker's ruling is upheld. There are occasions on
which I would require that to be so in any case, whether the member wanted it or not;
because if, in my opinion, the House was reaching a state of disorder because of interjec-
tions, I would require interjections to cease. The other Speaker's ruling-namely, that
interjections should be rare and reasonable-is the one that I prefer, because, in those
circumstances, we have a certain amount of life in the debate. I am not for a moment
suggesting that the honourable member's speech was not lively. I was listening very
carefully, and was very interested in it.
But when we come to the question of the naming of members, I was not in the Chamber
when Mr Speaker apparently commented on the interjections of one member. However,
naming is a technical procedure. If a member is named the normal procedure is that the
Leader of the House takes the hint from Mr Speaker and moves that that member be
suspended for 24 hours. That is a fairly drastic action, which has not occurred in the 14 years
I have been in the House. I hope that it would not happen. Very often the Speaker does not
identify the member who is interjecting, he just calls on the honourable member to cease the
interjections, or he may say that there are too many interjections from a certain quarter of
the House. It does not often happen that the Speaker identifies a member by naming him. I
think that is the distinction that needs to be made, and it is the one referred to by the Deputy
Prime Minister. If the honourable member for Roskill wishes to be heard in silence, I am
prepared to rule that he be heard in silence. If he is happy with a number of interjections, as
long as they are rare and reasonable, I am happy to allow them to continue.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: If the Prime Minister is to be believed, of course, then the
people were talking in their sleep, and obviously I would ignore them. Indeed, that is just
what I was doing, and I intend to keep on ignoring them. In the Budget, which has been
described as holding the line, the interest rates on Housing Corporation loans have been
raised by 1 percent. I had never expected to see that a Bill resulting from a Budget would be
introduced into Parliament for the purpose of increasing the top interest rates of moneylen-
ders to 15 percent and that it would be hailed as a progressive step. As a result, people who
need to borrow money can now be charged 15 percent interest by moneylenders. Is any
Government member proud of that? How are families helped when the interest rate on their
Housing Corporation mortgage is increased by 1 percent, from 74 percent to 8 percent?
Mr Lambert: What deliberate distortion!
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Of course they are not assisted in any way at all. I know the
tactics and the techniques behind that interjection.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! Did I hear an honourable member interject "deliber-
ate distortion"?
Mr Lambert: Yes, I made that interjection.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Then will the honourable member withdraw that comment,
please? I do not hear all interjections, but if they are unparliamentary and I do hear them I
require them to be withdrawn.
Mr Lambert: I withdraw.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Thank you.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: A Bill has been introduced to authorise moneylenders to
charge a top level of interest of 15 percent.
Mr McLay: That's not correct.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: It is correct. The rate used to be 10 percent, but now we have a
Bill in the House that provides for it to be increased to 15 percent. So that people who charge
such interest rates can operate under the Moneylenders Act.
Mr McLay: They don't have to charge that much.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: No, the Bill does not provide that they have to charge 15
percent, but they are permitted to do so.
Mr Brill: It will have no effect.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: Oh, come on. I know the tactics and the techniques adopted.
The point is that the green light has been given to everyone to increase the rates of interest. I
do not see how that action will help to reduce the rate of inflation, or help families, or


## p. 2201 (#657) ###########################################

16 August
2201
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
anyone who wants to develop anything, or even the farmers. Government members cannot
explain the reasons for that action and have not tried to do so, but it is nonsense for anyone
to claim that it will help the people I represent. Local authorities will now have to pay an
additional 1 percent interest on their loan moneys. Is it any wonder that my constituents in
Roskill are complaining that the average rates have increased from about $140 to $205?
Certainly, $25 of that $65 increase will now be tax deductible, but what kind of monkey
business is the Government up to? I have not heard any Government member who
represents an urban area try to defend that move. Are Government members in favour of it?
Do they believe that an increase in local body rates is good for the ratepayers? It seems that
they must be in favour of it, because they all claim to support the Budget, which provides for
that increase.
I see that the member for Waitemata is again becoming interested in what I am saying.
Do the ratepayers in his electorate not feel that they are already overburdened? Is he in
favour of increasing their rates? He is silent now, but he said that he supports the Budget
because it provides for the refinancing of second mortgages. It is true that some money has
been set aside for that purpose, but what are the criteria for obtaining it? During the past few
months, for the first time in my life as a member of Parliament, I have had people telephone
me about their problems in refinancing mortgages. I have been informed that the main
criterion for obtaining refinance is that the applicants must be under threat-in fact, I think a
court order-before their application will be considered. What are the criteria for obtaining
refinance from the Housing Corporation? When the Prime Minister replies to this debate, I
ask him to tell us the criteria in clear terms, please. Many people are worried out of their
minds about obtaining money to refinance their second mortgages.
I turn now to Government charges, and ask all members to consider the burden these
impose on families. The Government is now setting charges that will not just cover the costs
of providing Government services but will recover millions of dollars beyond those costs. In
that way it is imposing a great additional burden on the people. Indeed, that is one of the
reasons we are seeing such great problems. As the member for Raglan pointed out, if an
accounting system is run strictly, without allowing for the social pressures that will be placed
on the people in the next decade, the people of her generation will be faced with every
problem in the book. Every thinking member of Parliament realises that that is so.
If one of the most important aims is to remove or ease the economic pressure on people,
particularly family people, the families with teenage children, who are at the most expensive
stage in their lives, in Roskill, Linfield, and other communities in my electorate urgently
need assistance. However, the Budget provides nothing for them apart from increased
interest rates, increased Government charges, higher prices for clothing, and higher rates on
their homes. The parents of teenage children are training the next generation. It costs as
much to clothe their children as it does an adult, and it costs a small fortune to educate them.
Those children are the future producers of the nation, but there is nothing in the Budget for
them.
I have been a Cabinet Minister and I know how problems can arise. I have heard
Government members grizzling about the terms of trade. When the Labour Government
was in office the terms of trade turned against us by 45 percent, but while the National
Government has been in office they have risen by 14 percent and we have earned more than
$1 billion extra in export earnings. Did we get a word of sympathy or understanding from
members opposite? Not at all. They said that everything was our fault; that everything we
had done was wrong. No one expected that it would be an armchair ride for members
opposite when they became the Government. People could be forgiven for thinking that they
had the economic answers when they did not have them. I know there are no easy
alternatives. We did not tell the people that there were. We stated the facts, and I am proud
of many of our achievements that are yet to appear, and for which we will never get the
credit, but we do not look for the credit.
The National Party went to the country with a cure for our economic problems when the
terms of trade were 45 percent against us. We forecast that they would improve last year,
and they have improved beyond that forecast. They have improved by $1,000 million, but
the Government is still unable to deal with increasing import troubles and increasing prices
for overseas goods. That is why I agree with the reality of this Budget. It is time we faced
reality. I agree with the member for Raglan when she says it is time we faced the reality that
we will not have a growth factor for some time, that our work force is shrinking, and that we
are losing people abroad. The Minister of Overseas Trade left me in no doubt that,
whichever party is the Government, we shall have tremendous problems in selling our


## p. 2202 (#658) ###########################################

2202
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
products in Europe at prices that can sustain our economy. He is right, and the sooner we
face those facts with vision and concern, and with less sniping, the better it will be for the
nation and for the people we represent. Many people in the House know I hold that view.
We have known for a number of years that the Budget is no longer the document that
determines the course of actions that it used to be, because we live in a different kind of
world. We have to face the fact that, just as our Budget formation and the running of the
economy require fine tuning from time to time, what is needed now is a change in our
attitude and thinking in Parliament, as well as a change in the technique of administering the
economy. Because it has not been done before, there is no reason we should not attempt it
now. We have to move together.
I am pleased that the Prime Minister went to Japan, because we have to get into Asia
and the Third World where, while there is tremendous poverty, there is also tremendous
wealth. We have to be a leader in taking the Western way of life and way of trade to this
area; not only that, we also have to try to do something with our affiliations in Europe to
involve the Third World, not merely because that will sustain our economy but because it is a
wise, sensible, humane, and peaceful thing to do. Anyone who suggests that that is
impossible lacks vision and an appreciation of this country's destiny. When I was Minister of
Labour I had a very meagre association with this when I was dealing with Ministers of the
Third World in the Asian region of the ILO. One could see at once the leadership that those
people expected from Australia and New Zealand. They wanted more than just our
experience in building better working conditions; they wanted trade in place of aid, and that
we would use our links with Europe and the United States so that those countries would
become involved economically and socially in that area—not just for defence purposes,
because that is only half a policy, but for social and economic reasons, to develop friendship
and trade. That is our role, and we are good at it. We should not be arguing the toss by
saying "you collected something" or "someone collected something else”.
This is a sad Budget for one reason only-people expected very much more from it than
it could possibly have given them. I accept that. It lays to rest a lot of the propaganda we
have been subjected to for a long time. We must work together as a co-operative community
to get out of the position where, in order to survive, we require someone else to run an
external deficit. It is sad for that reason. It is also probably good news, because at long last
this House is beginning to look at the realities and give them a higher priority than
personalities, which for far too long and far too often have been dealt with by this Parliament
in recent years.
Mr N. P. H. JONES (Invercargill): You have to hand it to Opposition members, they
are good at talking-in fact, they are all talk. We have had nothing but talk about what they
would have done had they produced the Budget. However, the $64,000 question one must
ask is, why did they not do this when they had 3 years on the Treasury benches? If the
Labour Government had put its money where its mouth was and had come out with some
actions to match its words, its members would be sitting on the Treasury benches today. The
fact is they got thrown out of office. They were not just thrown; they were hurled from
office. They were overwhelmingly rejected as a Government and as a party. I know of
people who voted National in the Invercargill electorate at the last election who had never
voted National before. They did not vote for me; they voted for the National Party.
The member for Nelson, who is trying to interject, knows that I am no rising 2-year-old
contesting the parliamentary stakes for the first time. I have been around since the 1945 by-
election, 32 years ago. As a matter of fact, I am now getting to the aged stayer class,
contesting handicap events. I will give the member for Nelson a tip straight from the horse's
mouth. He should put $10 for a win on my nose at the next Invercargill parliamentary stakes.
I can assure him that I am well trained, have the distance, am carrying the right colours, and
will go there post favourite. Of course, I do not know whom Labour will enter for that
parliamentary handicap. Maybe its members are having barrier trouble at the trials, as they
are having in Auckland. I shall give the member for Roskill a stable tip. It is no use bringing
one of his democratic socialist horses from those left-handed tracks in Auckland down to
Invercargill. We run the right way round there.
I am not worried about the Opposition's reaction to the Budget-I am more concerned
about the overall reaction, and the reaction of Invercargill people in particular. It has been
most favourable, and I quote the comments published in the Southland Times on Friday, 22
July: "The 1977 Budget had something in it to please most Southlanders. If the reaction of
the province gauged last night was any indication the critics were few, and even they pointed
to sections of the Budget which pleased them." That is how most New Zealanders see the


## p. 2203 (#659) ###########################################

16 August
2203
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Budget, and it is the best compliment that can be paid to the Minister of Finance. The fact
that he was able to produce a Budget that pleased most New Zealanders, in spite of the
economic restraints that still apply, is a credit to his acknowledged economic expertise.
Of course, cne does not expect the Opposition to be pleased with anything the
Government does. I have been paying close attention to the sections the Opposition has
chosen to criticise, and when that criticism is analysed it is clear that Opposition members
have not been able to get their teeth into any particular section. Starting with the tedious
speech made by the Leader of the Opposition, we have heard the usual carping criticism that
taxes could have been reduced a bit more, but I do not think anybody listening to the debate
would have been very impressed with the Opposition's contribution. Most people have vivid
memories of Labour's 3 years in office, and know from practical experience that promises
were never matched by performance. The Budget was greeted enthusiastically in Southland,
and Mr Dougal Soper, Secretary of the Southland Drivers Union, is quoted as being
generally in favour of some of the Budget announcements.
I now want to talk about Southland. The continuing container port controversy has
brought to a head the struggle between Otago and Southland over which province should
service the region. Like many other Southlanders, I was disappointed that Bluff was not
given container port status. However, Southland has a lot more left going for it than it has
lost. I do not see Southlanders sitting around bemoaning the loss of the container port for
too long. The problem to be resolved is what kind of development will be best for Southland.
I foresee a major fish processing industry for Bluff, employing many hundreds of people. I
also foresee the Mataura lignite deposits being processed on a huge scale, and a major
business expansion to service the rapidly expanding tourist areas of Manapouri, Te Anau,
and Queenstown, because of the shift of allegiance towards Invercargill rather than
Dunedin. Invercargill's growth rate is already greater than that of Dunedin in absolute and
relative terms, and I am optimistic that Invercargill will continue to provide a solid base for
industry and commerce in Southland.
The recent announcement by the Minister of Energy Resources that the Government is
prepared to spend about $14.5 million to reopen the Wairakei mine at Ohai, both as an
opencast and underground mine, has assured the future of Ohai and Southland as a major
coal-producing centre-and I think I can take some credit for that. People in West Otago are
already doing business with Invercargill. In the last census, Queenstown reported a popula-
tion increase of almost 50 percent in 5 years. The big holiday crowds in that district must be
supplied and serviced from somewhere, and I predict that businessmen in Queenstown will
look more and more towards Invercargill to supply their needs. This trend will accelerate,
and I advise any business wanting to open a branch in Southland or Otago to look very
seriously at Invercargill first.
Southlanders are born optimists, but they are also realists, and they know that both the
good Lord and the Government help those who are prepared to help themselves; Southlan-
ders have a record of helping themselves equal to none. We built our own co-operative
freezing works, our own harbour, and our own co-operative fertiliser works, and I doubt if
there is one that is more efficient. Of course, we also have an aluminium smelter which,
although it has not brought to Southland the predicted boom in ancillary industry, is
Southland's largest single industry. I must confess that initially I did not support the smelter
if it meant raising and ruining Lake Manapouri and Lake Te Anau, and I actively
campaigned to save those lakes. As I saw it, Southland should have the best of both
worlds-and today it has. The lakes have been retained and are earning much needed tourist
dollars. The aluminium smelter is an integral part of the employment scene in Invercargill
and Southland, and about 9000 people are directly or indirectly dependent on it.
I am no longer interested in the politics of the original smelter agreement. But I am
vitally interested in the continuing security of the men who work there and of their families,
and also of the business enterprises based on the smelter. I have made my views known in
writing to the Prime Minister and, while I expect the owners of the smelter to pay for
Manapouri power at a fair and reasonable price on today's values, I do not expect the
smelter to be screwed down to pay an uneconomic increased price. I am completely
confident that the Prime Minister, who has received my representations on this matter, will
ensure that the price finally agreed upon will be accepted as fair and reasonable by both
parties.
I mentioned the loss of container port status for Bluff. Ever since the last election, a
number of Jeremiahs in Southland, led by the former Labour member for Awarua, Aubrey
Begg, have been making the most dismal predictions about what will happen to Southland in


## p. 2204 (#660) ###########################################

2204
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
general, and the port of Bluff in particular, because Southland does not have a container
port. I do not believe that the dire predictions of mass unemployment made by Mr Begg and
his followers will come to pass, but I remind the member for St. Albans, who is trying to
interject, that it was not the National Government which made the final decision not to give
container port status to Bluff. That decision was made by the former Labour Minister of
Transport, the member for Timaru; he had the final say. During the election campaign he
promised to go to Southland and tell Southlanders about the policy the Labour Government
would offer to Southlanders to offset its missing out on the container port. He did not come.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: I did so.
Mr N. P. H. JONES: He did not come during the election, and Southland has not yet
heard what Labour's policy was for its regional development. The fact is that the Labour
Party did not have a policy, but I will take a bet that it will produce one this year. However, I
do not think that Southlanders will be taken in by it.
I am acting as a sort of anchorman at the moment. There are a number of things I want
to say. I feel obliged to speak out on a subject I feel pretty strongly about-political
interference in sport. As I see it, the whole purpose of the National Government, and
certainly the whole purpose of this Parliament, is to safeguard the freedom of the individual
and the freedom of the family in a secure and just society. I do not mean complete and utter
freedom for any individual to say whatever he or she wishes; that sort of freedom leads to
anarchy. I mean the fundamental freedom the individual can expect to have in a democratic
society under a democratic Government.
For me, as an ordinary New Zealander, one of our fundamental freedoms is the
freedom to travel from our country to play sport with whomever one chooses. There are
people in this country who want so much to see one or two of our athletes competing at the
Edmonton Games that they are prepared to sacrifice the freedom of other sportsmen for
that. I want to say to All Black captain Tane Norton and his fellow All Blacks who have been
invited to go to South Africa to play rugby as individuals that they go with my personal
blessing. I want to say to them that I am proud of them for sticking to their guns, because by
sticking to their guns and fighting for their individual freedom they are also fighting for my
individual freedom and for that of every other New Zealander.
The political pressure again being brought against our country and our Government
because of our refusal to stop individuals from doing their thing is the same political pressure
that manifested itself against this country during the Montreal Olympics. At least 34 other
nations competing there—including the host nation-were continuing sporting ties with
South Africa. What was the reason for HART, CARE, and a bloc of 20 Afro-Asian nations
blackballing New Zealand? The reason was that they could hardly pick on their "red fed”
friends in the communist bloc nations.
I shall have to stop with this thought: the truth of the Montreal Olympics is the truth of
what is happening today. At Montreal, half the competing nations were governed in the
main by bloody-minded dictatorships. When one thinks of the living dead in their jails and of
the psychiatric prisons that brainwash their political prisoners, then, as far as I am
concerned, half of those countries that competed at the Montreal Olympics are an insult to
human dignity and freedom. And that is what we are talking about. We are talking about the
freedom of the individual, and that is what we will lose in this country if we give way to the
same political pressures that are now reappearing over the Edmonton Games. Instead of
directing criticism at Tane Norton and his fellow All Blacks, people should be directing their
criticism at the black African nations which are chopping their people to pieces, and should
be telling them to clean the dirt and stench out of their own kitchens before pointing the
bone at New Zealand.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I am delighted to have the
opportunity of replying to this debate, but I am bound to say that it has not been one of the
greater Budget debates of our time. The responsibility for that, of course, lies with the
Opposition, which has totally failed to make any impact on the House or the country in
talking about this year's Budget. Naturally, a good deal of the discussion has revolved
around our economic situation, and I shall talk about that shortly. However, I want to talk
briefly about the address given this evening by the member for Roskill, the president of the
Labour Party. Until I reminded him of the fact, his speech was totally soporific. Had it not
been for the interjections from this side of the House, most Opposition members would have
been asleep and, finally, the member for Roskill would have been asleep; but having been
reminded, he summoned up sufficient energy to finish his speech while still awake.
He is the president of the Labour Party, and must bear some responsibility for the


## p. 2205 (#661) ###########################################

16 August
2205
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
curious happenings within the party in the last week or two. The man who has been referred
to as "Wasby", but who is more properly the honourable member for Grey Lynn, has now
been nominated by the member for Roskill-because he did not nominate himself—as the
candidate for Papatoetoe where there was a dead heat between two former members of
Parliament. That is democracy in action; social democracy in action; or democratic socialism
in action. The head office states who will be the candidate. The seat of Onehunga is still in
the balance.
Hon. Members: Watt?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I had hoped he would be Frank and tell us Hugh or Watt
would be the member, if he won it. In the meantime, the candidate is not known, whether it
be poor old Hugh or taxi Frank, or someone from outside because the party cannot choose
between them.
Hon. Allan McCready: Get Frank O'Flynn.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Frank O'Flynn, the time has come, the walrus said. That is
the Labour Party in the political doldrums. The member for Roskill talked about the
Gleneagles Agreement, and said that it was the same as Labour's policy. The Gleneagles
Agreement has not required the National Government to refuse visas for sportsmen coming
to New Zealand, but the Labour Government did that. We should not be confused by the
double talk of the president of the Labour Party. On behalf of the National Government, I
said that the Government would not refuse passports for New Zealanders to travel and
would not refuse visas for their guests coming to this country. Britain and Canada have taken
the same view. I have received a message as recently as today stating that the president of an
African country, which I will not name at the moment, has said, after looking at the
situation, that New Zealand has carried out the spirit of the Gleneagles Agreement—and it
has.
The member for Roskill talked about taxation. The National Government is still using
the Labour Government's tax rate. The Government has neither increased nor reduced the
rate for those on lower incomes. The member for Roskill spoke about people who are having
difficulty in refinancing second mortgages. What crocodile tears! The whizz-kid, who
scraped in as the candidate for the new seat of Manurewa, is the expert on housing. Well
may the member for St. Kilda look down when I speak about housing. We know what his
record was-people lost their houses because they could not refinance. There are something
like 70 in the whole country, and steps have been taken to ensure that those people do not
lose their homes. The Labour Party did nothing when it was the Government.
I do not want to spend much time on the member for Roskill, but to go back to the
beginning of the debate when the Leader of the Opposition, in what should have been his
most important speech of the year, put four of his own members to sleep. Sitting here and
looking across the floor of the House, I thought he had put three of them to sleep, but I
found out afterwards that there was another up at the back I had not noticed. The Leader of
the Opposition has recently been talking about interest rates. He says that Labour would use
the power in the Reserve Bank Act to decrease interest rates. If he did, he would very
rapidly diminish the amount of saving, which means very rapidly diminishing the amount of
investment. Although he was Minister of Finance for a year and a half, and Prime Minister
for about the same length of time, apparently he still has not grasped the fact that, if you
have a rate of inflation of 14 percent, anyone who saves money and invests it is subsidising
somebody else unless he receives a return of 14 percent after tax. Apparently the Labour
Party has not realised that.
For that reason we will, in accordance with an election promise, introduce an inflation-
proofed savings scheme this year. We refer to it as the Luxton scheme-the scheme put
forward by the member for Piako when we were in Opposition. I remind members that the
scheme was opposed and voted against by the then Labour Government. The principal
speaker in opposition was once again the whizz-kid, who, every time he gets an idea, falls flat
on his face. At the moment he is the member for Manukau, and a candidate for Manurewa.
He led the opposition to the Luxton scheme, and Labour members all voted against it. We
could not put it into practice when we were in Opposition, but we will do so this year.
The scheme will make a nest egg inflation proof; $5,000 that year after year will retain
its purchasing power. When I went around the country before the last election, on every
platform where I put it forward this policy was greeted with applause. We will implement it.
I wonder if the Opposition will vote against it this year? Labour members voted against it in
1975, when the member for Piako introduced it in a private member's Bill. I should not be
surprised if they did they have done some very strange things, both in Government and in


## p. 2206 (#662) ###########################################

2206
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
Opposition.
It is appropriate, since these matters have been referred to throughout the Budget
debate, to tell the country how much of our short-term economic strategy has been carried
out in a little over 18 months. That is just one item. I read from the National Party's
statement of economic policy: "Immigration which, in the last two years, has required
resources of the order of $660 million, will be cut to the bone." That has been carried out.
We have heard the whingeing and the grizzling from Labour members, but we have done
precisely what we said we would do before the election. We have carried it out.
"Confidence will be restored to our export industries, particularly farming." It has
been. Manufactured exports have soared, and confidence has been restored to the farming
industry. Instead of stock numbers going down, as they were under the Labour Government,
they have started to come up again under the National Government. Spending on farm
development and maintenance is on an upward trend. Confidence, in fact, has been restored
to farming, so much so that the various institutions that lend to farmers are strapped for
cash, because the farmers are spending. They want to borrow more, and that is a sign of
confidence.
"Price and income control measures will be used as necessary counterparts the one of
the other." We have done that. We have now introduced flexibility into wage fixing—and we
did not hear much about that from the Opposition during this debate. We have had talks
with the representatives of the employees and the Federation of Labour. We have said, "All
right, you negotiate in a moderate way, we will give you the flexibility you want, and we will
see how it goes." We are retaining price control, because price control can handle
reasonable wage increases. If that policy is accepted and carried out in the spirit in which it
was negotiated, we will be taking a step that the Labour Government never took.
"The New Zealand content of the goods we require assumes an increased value and
local production will be encouraged accordingly." We have done that with import substitu-
tion, and we are taking further steps by means of incentives-taxation and otherwise-to
carry out that policy. "Profitability will be restored to private industry so that jobs will
remain available to the New Zealand work force." I remember the Leader of the Opposition
going around the country before the election saying, "You elect this lot and there will be
50 000 unemployed", and in his wilder moments he said that 100 000 would be unemployed.
Sure, we have some unemployed, but no more than when they, the workers' friends over
there, were the Government; and throughout the country today a good man can get a job.
There is no doubt whatever about that.
"The taxation system will be used to give incentives for desirable economic activity." It
is being so used. We have amended it, with new incentives and new ideas through the
taxation system. "Trade negotiations will be conducted on the principle that we will not
import the unemployment of other countries." We are not, because our unemployment is no
worse than when we took office. We do not accept unemployment as a balancing factor in
economic management. Labour members said we would, but they were wrong. "Continuous
attention to economic trends and problems will replace stop-go and panic measures." I well
remember the tax cry of the Leader of the Opposition when he was Prime Minister. "I am
not going to panic." We used to say, "We don't want you to panic, we just want you to
govern❞—and he did not, and was thrown out. Well, we have not panicked; we have
governed, and we are making progress.
"The trend towards State ownership and control will be reversed and the vast superan-
nuation fund which is designed to provide State ownership of industry will be abolished."
And it was. We carried out that promise immediately, and put national superannuation in its
place. Members opposite said we could not finance that scheme. However, in this Budget we
have financed national superannuation—the major impact of our election policy--without
any increase in the rates of taxation. There have been all kinds of talk in the debate about the
extra cost of national superannuation. The total amount of $905 million, before tax, includes
the old universal superannuation, the previous age benefit, and the increased rates,
including those for people between the ages of 60 and 65. Before national superannuation is
paid out, $140 million is deducted as source taxation, so the net amount is $765 million. The
cost of the age benefit and universal superannuation was $625 million, less tax of $25 million,
making a net total of $600 million. So the net additional cost this year is $165 million.
When we were in Opposition, the present Minister of Trade and Industry, the present
Minister of Energy Resources, the present Minister of Health, and I did some arithmetic,
with a little bit of outside help, and said that national superannuation could be financed
without an increase in the rate of taxation. The then Labour Government had the total


## p. 2207 (#663) ###########################################

16 August
2207
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
resources of the State-Treasury, the Reserve Bank, the lot—and said that it could not be
done; but it has been done. All we have had to put into our Budget this year is $165 million,
when we have had the biggest jump in expenditure.
On top of that, we have also been able to supply $85 million in tax reductions for lower-
income families. The Leader of the Opposition said that the additional tax relief to families
with young children was welcome. What a kind thing to say! If it was welcome, why did the
Labour Government not do that when it had the chance? Members opposite are saying that
national superannuation costs too much and is going to the people who do not need it. They
are also saying that they will cut it back. Let them put their cards on the table and be frank
with the people, and say what they will do with national superannuation if a Labour
Government gets back into office at some time in the future.
The National Government has adopted a more flexible interest rate, and the controlled
and uncontrolled markets have been brought closer together. The Leader of the Opposition
is now going around the country saying that they will be spread apart, that the controlled rate
should be brought down, which means that the uncontrolled rate will go higher. What
incentive is there to save if the return on what you save is just a tiny fraction of the rate of
inflation? That is the policy he is espousing, as he did when he was Minister of Finance and,
subsequently, Prime Minister. We said that savings would be stimulated and that thrift
would be rewarded, and that is exactly what we are doing. With an inflation rate of 14
percent, how do you reward thrift? How do you reward thrift if you cannot give a return
after tax that is equal to the rate of inflation?
"A committee of inquiry will be set up to examine work done on inflation accounting in
New Zealand and overseas and report on its application to the New Zealand taxation
system." That has been done, and we are working on the report; we are hearing representa-
tions to see whether we want to implement it. We have carried out that promise. "Savings
accounts limited as to amount will be established in which deposits of individuals receive an
interest rate at least equal to the annual rate of inflation, thus preserving the purchasing
power of a basic savings nest egg." That is the "Luxton clause" in the Budget. It will be
legislated for this year, and we shall see whether the Labour Party opposes it.
"The growth of Government spending will be curbed, thus enabling income tax
increases to be less than the 87 percent increase of the last 3 years." That has been done; it
has been curbed, and the rate of increase of income tax is lower. "Small and contractual
savings institutions such as building societies, credit unions, savings banks and life offices,
will be encouraged by appropriate incentives." In last year's Budget, and again in this year's
Budget, they have been so encouraged. We have carried out that promise. Finally, "Death
duties which have escalated rapidly with increased property values will be reviewed at an
early date." And they were in our first Budget.
I have carefully and deliberately read out every word in our short-term economic policy,
which we put in front of the people before the last election. As Minister of Finance, I can say
without fear of denial that every word, every thought, and every concept in that short-term
economic policy has been carried out in my first two Budgets. There are no broken promises
there. I wonder if members opposite could say the same. Of course they could not.
Let me go back then to the opening speech of the Leader of the Opposition—the one
that put his colleagues to sleep. He said that the Budget represented a surrender to inflation.
In 1972, the last year of the former National Government, the rate of inflation was 5.5
percent. The Leader of the Opposition became the Minister of Finance, and the rate of
inflation in his first year was not 5.5 percent, but 10 percent.
Mr Elliott: They said they would knock it for six.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Then he became Prime Minister, and it was better
still not 12.6 percent, but 15.7 percent. Someone said "knock it for six". The Labour Party
promised to knock inflation for six, but knocked it only for three-5.5 percent to 15.7
percent. People had had enough, they were not going to allow the Labour Government to
knock it for six. The inflation rate came down to 14 percent this year. That is not good
enough, but it takes a little while to return to the status quo after 3 years of economic
mismanagement of the kind practised by the former Labour Government.
The Leader of the Opposition said that the Government had created new records. In
inflation? No, the Government's record is not as bad as his record. In industrial unrest? I am
not sure, but I think not. Certainly it was higher last year than it has been for some time, but
we put on the statute book the legislation we had promised to pass in our election manifesto,
which the people voted for. As a result, we had some unrest last year. Record overseas
borrowing? No, not likely. Today we are paying back vast sums, and we have had to borrow


## p. 2208 (#664) ###########################################

2208
16 August
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
to pay the interest on the loans borrowed by the Labour Party when it was in office. When
the former Labour Government assumed the Treasury benches, our overseas reserves were
greater than our overseas debt for the first time in history. We will not see that day again for
some time.
Recently, I borrowed in Switzerland. The Leader of the Opposition added that loan to
the amount we have borrowed, but I raised that loan to repay a loan that he had arranged as
Minister of Finance in 1974, and which was not due for repayment. He borrowed the money
in Switzerland, and I borrowed the same amount to repay the loan he arranged, because I
could borrow it at two-thirds the rate of interest he was given. The Leader of the Opposition
claims that the National Government has borrowed more. Certainly, we have borrowed, but
I reiterate that the loan I raised in Switzerland about 2 months ago was to repay a loan he
arranged in 1974, which was not due for repayment; but the interest rate on my loan is only
two-thirds of the rate on the loan he arranged. We are refinancing the borrowing the Labour
Government had to pay so dearly for. The country's credit diminished while the former
Labour Government was in office, but since the change of Government we have again been
given a triple A credit rating around the world. I emphasise that that has happened since the
change of Government, and since the Leader of the Opposition ceased to be the Minister of
Finance. We are borrowing at two-thirds the rate of interest the Labour Government
borrowed at when he was the Minister of Finance. Mind you, one cannot blame the lenders.
One has only to listen to him to know that anyone would be very doubtful about lending any
money to him and, if they did, they would want a fairly high interest rate—and that is exactly
what happened.
The Leader of the Opposition said that the benefits of the 50 percent increase in exports
in 1976, which had been worked and planned for by the previous Government, had been
largely destroyed. They had worked and planned for a 50 percent increase in exports. What
an extraordinary statement! My statistics tell me that stock numbers in New Zealand went
down while the Labour Government was in office; that was the result of that Government's
planning. Sure, the prices increased, but Labour members planned for people overseas to
pay more at auction for our meat and our wool. I should be very interested indeed to learn
how one plans for that, and to know how, by some kind of planning, one can ensure that
people overseas pay more at auction for our meat and our wool. That is what the Leader of
the Opposition said he had planned for. My analysis of the situation is that he planned for a
reduction in production and a reduction in stock numbers. Therefore, higher prices were
paid, of course, but on a lower production. That is what the former Labour Government
planned for, and that is what it got. Farm stocking is now up, production is up, and export
from our factories is up.
The Leader of the Opposition then made another curious statement. He said that the
tax structure should be rebuilt, both to provide incentives for working people and to protect
family budgets. I do not think anyone would disagree with that. It is a very commendable
statement, except that some thinking people in this country might still ask, if that is the
principle of those 32 members on the other side-the last remnant of the 55 who stormed
into this Chamber in February 1973 so full of enthusiasm-why did they not carry it out
during those 3 years? They now say that the tax structure should be rebuilt, both to provide
incentives for working people and to protect the family budget. But why did they not carry it
out? The member for Otahuhu, now the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, presented one
Budget, and the member for Tasman, the leader-at the moment of the Labour Party,
presented two; but why did they not carry it out? Why did they not rebuild the tax structure
to provide incentives for working people and to protect the family budget? What we have
today is the tax structure that was operated by members opposite.
That tax structure has been amended only at the bottom end of the scale, to help the
working people and to protect the family budget. That was done last year, and it has been
repeated this year. Yet, in his Budget speech, the Leader of the Opposition said that his
party would rebuild the tax structure to do just that. Why did the Labour Government not
do something about the low-income families, as this Government has in 2 successive years?
The Leader of the Opposition also said that the additional tax relief for families with young
children was welcome. That was kind of him. I am sure that the president of the Labour
Party would agree with that statement, but why did his Government not do something about
it?
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I will not comment on that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: He says he will not comment. That is the first time I have
ever seen the member short of a comment. The member agrees that he welcomes it. He was


## p. 2209 (#665) ###########################################

16 August
2209
Appropriation Bill-Financial Statement
in the Labour Cabinet, where I assume he opened his mouth occasionally—he never fails to
do so in the House. I am sure that the only reason they did not do this, which they must agree
was a good move, was that they did not think about it. Perhaps the member for Northern
Maori could tell me why his Government did not do it. He was in the Labour Cabinet. He
does not know either. I am sure that the member for Timaru has some idea why his
Government did not do it. No, he just looks sad. None of them knows why his Government
did not do it. The heart of the member for Wigram is in the right place. It is broken, but it is
in the right place. Why did his Government not do it? He just sits there and grins. It is
extraordinary, is it not? Members opposite are so vocal, so voluble, and so full of ideas on
other occasions, but tonight they cannot say why they did not do what they now welcome,
and why they did not put this into one of their Budgets. I wonder if they want to be the
Government again.
My goodness, here is a gem from the Leader of the Opposition: "The increased duty on
alcohol and tobacco will fall most heavily on the lower-income group." The Opposition let us
get to bed early on Budget night, because Opposition members knew that the public thought
it was a good idea, and they did not have their hearts in the attack. Both the Minister of
Health and I had announced a few weeks earlier that we were looking at this levy on tobacco
and alcohol for funding community health.
Then we had the so-called leak in that estimable paper, the Dominion. Oh, it has its
uses, but I shall not say what they are. The member for Auckland Central then saw fit to
make a totally unwarranted attack on people who could not reply. I thank the member for
Sydenham for the gentlemanly statement he made in the House this afternoon. It is what we
would have expected from him, but I have no words to say to the member for Auckland
Central. I think he will be judged by his colleagues, quite apart from the people outside the
House. I call him "Mr 28 percent". The average that the Labour Party polled at the last
election was 32 percent of the people on the roll. The member for Auckland Central polled
28 percent of the people on the Auckland Central roll-the lowest percentage of any
member. He thus becomes the lowest of the low. I say no more about the member for
Auckland Central.
The Opposition then said that the Government had wrecked the private house mortgage
market. The Government did not.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I saw you thinking very hard about a
remark made by the Prime Minister. I had hoped I would not have to draw it to your
attention, but it was entirely out of order, and intended to be so. Perhaps it was skillfully led
into, but to describe any member in the terms used by the Prime Minister is entirely
unjustified.
Mr Luxton: I was listening to the Minister of Finance, and he said quite clearly that the
member had only 28 percent of the votes cast and, for that reason, he was the lowest of the
low in terms of being elected to the House. It was not a statement against the member
himself, but rather a comment on the result of the election.
Mr SPEAKER: I was not quite sure that I had heard the remark properly. I knew that
there had been a reference to percentages of votes. I had a strong suspicion that the remark
was out of order and, the point having been raised, I shall assume that it was a double
entente, in which case it would be out of order. I ask that it be withdrawn.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Naturally I withdraw the comment-naturally.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member will just say, "I withdraw"
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Yes, I do.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sorry to interrupt the honourable member, but the time has come
for me to leave the chair.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 2210 (#666) ###########################################

2210
17 August
Oral Answers to Questions
WEDNESDAY, 17 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p
p.m.
Prayers.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Industrial Mediators
1. Mr MALCOLM (Eden) asked the Minister of Labour: How many cases have been
dealt with by industrial mediators in each of the last 3 years, and how many referrals resolved
the issues involved?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The latest available figures relate to 1976
referrals. In 1973 there were 117 referrals to the mediation service. In 1974 and 1975 the
figures were 170 and 270 respectively, and in 1976 referrals totalled 275. In the majority of
cases the parties resolved the issues themselves—with the mediator's assistance—or agreed
to accept the mediator's recommendations for settlement. The number of cases so resolved
in the years 1973 to 1976 were respectively 100, 144, 249, and 260.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: What proportion of cases were settled by the parties themselves,
without active participation by the mediator, he simply acting as a chairman?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The analysis would be correct. The mediator has got the parties
talking together, and the issue has been resolved without the mediator having to make a
recommendation. I do not have the breakdown requested, but I should be pleased to get it if
the member would ask a separate question.
Question Transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
State Servants-Departmental Houses
2. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of State Services: When does he
expect some finality in the negotiations on rentals from State servants occupying departmen-
tal houses?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services): Negotiations with the State unions
through the Combined State Service Organisations on a new rental formula are proceeding,
and have been for some time. At the present stage of negotiations I am unable to say when a
settlement will be reached.
Mr Marshall: Could the Minister confirm that the stated position of the State Services
Commission, which has already resulted in a number of opposing letters from various
sectors, will not be the final position of the Minister or the commission?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I can only respond to that by saying that the original reply
mentioned negotiations. This Government does not enter negotiations as such with an
absolutely fixed mind.
Mr Bell: Is there a maximum rental payable by State servants occupying departmental
houses based on the occupant's salary, similar to ordinary State house rentals?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I cannot answer that specifically without going through the
classifications. In some rare cases the answer might be yes.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Middlemore Hospital-Extramural Services
3. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Health: What is the present
position regarding the Auckland Hospital Board's proposal to open a base for extramural
services at Middlemore Hospital?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The Auckland Hospital Board has already made
arrangements to provide limited extramural services from Middlemore Hospital through 25
district nurses and 2 social workers. A further expansion of this base is planned, and the
conversion of an existing building on the hospital site, costing an estimated $20,000 to
$25,000, is at the design stage.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2211 (#667) ###########################################

17 August
2211
Oral Answers to Questions
Secondary Ports-Wool Shipping Schedule
4. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Has he seen the
article in the Christchurch Press of 30 July referring to the wool shipping schedule, and
headed, "Shipping schedule a document of doom", and, if so, what action does he propose
to take to ensure conventional shipping is encouraged to make the maximum use of the
facilities of secondary ports, particularly Timaru, Napier, and Bluff for wool and other
produce from these regions?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport): Yes, I have seen the article in the
Christchurch Press dated 30 July, not 27 July as referred to by the honourable member. As I
have said before in this House, the Government cannot direct shipping lines to call at
particular ports. However, from my continuing discussions with the lines and the harbour
boards concerned I am confident that the facilities at the non-container ports could be used
with advantage in the future for wool and other cargoes.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Has the Minister considered using section 94 of the articles of
association of the Shipping Corporation of New Zealand, which gives him certain powers in
relation to ships operated by the corporation; and has he also considered informing overseas
shipping companies that New Zealand expects them to co-operate, otherwise the shipping of
New Zealand produce could be carried out by New Zealand-owned and manned ships?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I do know the article referred to by the honourable
member, and I have asked the Shipping Corporation to carry out a survey of cargoes
available, and of the New Zealand coastal trade. If I remember correctly, in answer to a
question some time ago I told the honourable member that if shipping lines were directed by
the Government it would be presented with the bill. At present I am trying to find out just
how much that bill would be. The member knows that, because he led a deputation to me the
other day.
Mr Latter: Is it true that the long-term future of some of our non-container ports relies
on the destination of the cargo? In other words, if we seek new markets overseas, but
container unloading facilities are not available, is that the type of future our non-container
ports might well be facing?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: That type of ship will operate in future for the reasons
given in the member's question. However, there will be some difficulties in the interim, and
we are trying to attend to them at present.
Mr Christie: As Napier is the biggest wool-selling centre in New Zealand, and as it is
expected that 80 percent of the wool will be shipped in containers this year, is the Minister
happy that, although it now costs 29c to cart a bale from the wool store to the wharf, it will
cost $4.59 to take it to Wellington?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: This is the sort of problem one gets with container ports.
I do not want to get into this argument until I have made a decision on the three appeals I
have on my desk. I owe the member an apology if I have not informed him before, but I will
be visiting the Napier Harbour Board next week.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Referring to my earlier supplementary question about the
Shipping Corporation, the Minister will be familiar with the report in last night's Evening
Post that there is a possibility that one or both of the corporation's conventional ships might
be laid up. Is the Minister satisfied with that, and what is he doing to ensure that these ships
remain in service carrying goods to and from this country?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I saw the article in last night's paper, and I have spoken
with the Shipping Corporation's representatives this morning. I am not sure that the ships
are being laid up because of containerisation or whether they will be taken off. As I want to
give the member an accurate answer, I will provide the information if he likes to ask me
another question.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Christchurch Airport
5. Miss DEWE (Lyttelton) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Has he seen the report in Trans-Tasman, dated 4 August 1977, which, under the
paragraph heading "Tourist pressure on gateway", states, "There are also limitations on the
use of Christchurch Airport where the main runway, 8014 ft long, is insufficient for long-
range DC10 or Boeing 747 operations", and, if this is correct, does it mean that many of the
Pan American flights at present using Auckland could not come into Christchurch Airport?


## p. 2212 (#668) ###########################################

2212
17 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
Pan American World Airways has operated charter flights to Christchurch through
Honolulu and Tahiti. There is nothing to stop them operating scheduled services on these
routes if they wish to do so. However, I have no power of direction in this matter.
Mr Kirk: Can the Minister confirm that the flights to Fiji or Rarotonga, which are of a
similar duration to the trans-Tasman flights currently using Christchurch Airport, do not
come into the category of long-range flights, and could easily be diverted to Christchurch
from Auckland?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: Although I did not hear the first two or three words, I
think I have the member's question. Such flights could be diverted if those who operate them
decide to do so.
Hon. Michael Connelly: As Christchurch Airport is a joint venture between the
Christchurch City Council and the Government, will the Minister take the initiative and
invite the council to join with the Government in embarking on any necessary extension to
Christchurch Airport, which would enable aircraft flying to and from New Zealand to use
that airport?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: I am not aware of any extension that would help. The
member must know, as I do, that the American air force aircraft, which are among the
biggest in the world, take off and land safely at Christchurch Airport. The member would
also know that Qantas operates jumbo jets and Air New Zealand operates DC10s in and out
of Christchurch, so I cannot see where the extension is necessary. I have had no approach
from the city council or any other body saying that the airport should be extended.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
On-shore Oil Prospecting Licences
6. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga), on behalf of Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone),
asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Do the on-shore oil prospecting licences which the
Government has issued to itself despite the provisions of section 47D of the Petroleum Act
contain the same conditions and terms as would have been required from any other licence
holder?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): It is unnecessary for petroleum
prospecting licences issued to the Minister of Mines to include conditions relating to the
payment of royalties or an annual licence fee. Nor is it necessary that the Minister, as the
holder of the licence, should deposit with the Secretary of Mines as security a deposit or
bond. This is because the Petroleum Act provides that terms and conditions which are
required to be included in licences issued to other licensees need not be included in licences
issued to the Minister on behalf of the Crown. I note that the question suggests that the
petroleum prospecting licences have been issued to me as Minister of Mines despite the
provisions of section 47D of the Petroleum Act. This section, however, deals with a
completely different and unrelated matter, and is itself subject to the section in the Act
under which these prospecting licences have been issued. The object of section 47D is to
prevent public servants who, on account of their position, may have access to confidential
information from using their position for personal advantage by acquiring an interest in a
prospecting or mining licence issued under the Act.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Railway Employees, Whangarei City
7. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Railways: How many people are
employed by the Railways Department in Whangarei City, what is the highest salary paid to
a railway employee in Whangarei, and what is the average salary paid to railway employees
in Whangarei?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways): There are 311 Railways Depart-
ment employees in Whangarei. However, I am not prepared, out of consideration for these
employees, to state what the individual salaries and wages are. I presume that the purpose of
the question is to ascertain the importance of Railways Department employees to the city of
Whangarei. I can best illustrate this by saying that the annual wage bill by the department in
Whangarei is approximately $2.2 million.
Mr Elliott: I thank the Minister for that answer and I accept his comments about
individual salaries. Can he indicate how the status of the senior employees in Whangarei


## p. 2213 (#669) ###########################################

17 August
2213
Oral Answers to Questions
compares with the status of senior employees in other cities of comparable size throughout
New Zealand?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The word "status" has me a little bit puzzled, because
Railways Department employees, from the General Manager of Railways down, are all on
the same footing, whether they are in Whangarei or Ashburton.
Mr Elliott: What about seniority?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: That is decided by the department, just as it is by other
departments. The quick answer is that the status of senior and junior officers would be the
same in Whangarei as it is in any other part of New Zealand.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Inflation-proofed Savings Bonds
8. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Finance: Is the Government yet in a
position to indicate when the proposed inflation-proofed savings bonds will be made
available for sale to the public?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): Preparatory work on the necessary
legislation is well advanced, but at this stage I am unable to give a firm date of introduction.
It will not be long delayed.
Mr Courtney: To help the people of New Zealand, could the Minister indicate in which
areas the money derived from this source will be spent, compared to the areas in which the
third Labour Government intended to spend money collected from the New Zealand
superannuation scheme?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I believe there is a question on the Order Paper asking that
exact question, but I have no objection to giving the information. There is no relationship
between the two issues. The so-called New Zealand superannuation scheme invested,
through an investing committee of the board set up by the Labour Government, in various
types of securities-Government and local body stock, company shares, and company
debentures. Surely the member is not suggesting that we would invest Government funds in
company shares in that manner?
Mr Courtney: I want to know the specific areas.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Well the answer is very simple. We will not invest it in
company shares; it will be invested in the normal way
Mr Hunt: Housing?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I find the question a curious one, because this will become
normal Government issue.
Mr Courtney: Has the Government anything definite in mind?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: This is just the same as Government stock; it will be used
for the general purposes of Government. I would have thought that would be very obvious.
It seems to me a very curious question.
Mr Courtney: Superannuation?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: This is not superannuation. It is a Government loan; a
form of investment.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper
Massey and Ranui—Social Development Council Report
9. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: When can the
people of Massey and Ranui expect a report from the Social Development Council on its
visit earlier this year?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): I understand that the report on the
study of the Massey situation which is being undertaken by the Social Development Council
at the request of the Cabinet committee on family affairs will be submitted to the Cabinet
committee later this year.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Could the Minister be more specific and say when the Social
Development Council's report will be going to Cabinet and what will happen to it after it has
been to Cabinet?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The study is being undertaken by the council's standing
committee on urban and regional development. The committee visited the Massey area in
April this year and is currently preparing its report, which it is expected will be before the
October meeting of the council. The council will then forward it to the Cabinet committee on


## p. 2214 (#670) ###########################################

2214
17 August
Oral Answers to Questions
.family affairs.
Mr Hunt: Will the report be made public? The original question asked when the people
of Massey and Ranui can export a report. The Minister has indicated that it will be going to
Cabinet, and all sorts of things will be happening there, but will the report be tabled in
Parliament or sent to the local authorities in the area for their use?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I would expect the Social Development Council to make a
recommendation when it sends its report to the Cabinet committee on family affairs.
However, this is a matter that concerns people in new housing development areas, and
unless there is any special reason why the council feels it should not be published, I see no
reason why it should not be. In any case, the final decision will rest with the Cabinet
committee on family affairs.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: The Minister referred to meetings of the Cabinet committee on
family affairs in April and October. Are we to assume that it meets at 6-monthly intervals,
and that the next meeting will be in April of next year?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: No, I was not referring to the meetings of the Cabinet committee
on family affairs but to meetings of the Social Development Council.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Does it meet at 6-monthly intervals?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The Cabinet committee on family affairs meets quite frequently.
A special meeting would be called if it is necessary to deal with a matter of public concern
relating to family affairs.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Commission for the Environment Legislation
10. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori), on behalf of Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central),
asked the Minister for the Environment: What progress has been made on legislation to give
statutory independence to the Commission for the Environment, and when is a Bill expected
to be introduced into the House?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister for the Environment): The Government has considered
the issue and has decided not to proceed with legislation at present. I am happy to leave the
question in abeyance for the time being. The commission is operating very effectively
without a statutory base, and its independence is widely accepted.
Hon. M. Rata: Are we to take it that the Minister's reply, that the Government does not
propose to proceed with enacting statutory provisions to ensure the independence of the
Commission for the Environment, indicates the importance the Government attaches to
environmental matters?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: As I said, at present there is no proposal for legislation, but that in
no way interferes with the independence of the commission. The independence of the
Commission for the Environment is widely accepted.
Dr Shearer: Can the Minister indicate whether the Commission for the Environment is
hampered in carrying out its activities because of the fact that it lacks statutory independ-
ence?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: In fact, the reverse applies. The absence of a statutory basis for the
commission has placed no constraint on its activities. In fact, it can be and has been argued
that the absence of a statute has enabled the commission's role to develop and expand
according to its needs.
Mr SPEAKER: Before I call the next honourable member, I should say that we have
dealt with fewer than half the questions and used considerably more than half our time.
Hon. M. Rata: Can the Minister advise the House of the exact reason the Government
does not propose to proceed with legislation to give the Commission for the Environment
statutory independence?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: The exact reason is that it is not necessary. The commission is
independent and it does not require to be established independently by statute. Its
independence is accepted. Let me say too that the presentation of audits by the commission
has not been interfered with by the Government in any way, as it was by the former Labour
Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Regional Development Assistance
11. RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North) to ask the Minister of Regional Development:


## p. 2215 (#671) ###########################################

17 August
2215
Oral Answers to Questions
What were the flows of applications (all types) for regional development assistance in the
years 1973-74, 1974-75, 1975-76, and 1976-77 expressed in number of applications, approvals
given, and percentage of approvals to applications? In view of the length of the reply that I
understand the Minister intends to make to this question, I seek the leave of the House to
have the question transferred to Questions for Written Answer.
Mr SPEAKER: I am sure it is the pleasure of the House that this course be followed. As
there appears to be no objection, it will be treated as a question for written answer.
Police to Population Ratio
12. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Police: What was the 1975, 1976, and
1977 ratio of police to population on 31 March each year?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police): Police staffing is no longer based on a
police to population ratio, this formula having been abandoned by the Labour Government
Cabinet on 30 July 1975. As a matter of interest, if the ratio system were still effective it
would produce the following ratios: 1975, 1:760; 1976, 1:745; 1977, 1:699.
Mr Christie: What is the ratio for the year to March 1978?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I do not have foresight.
Mr Lithgow: Does the Minister agree that the figures given show that the National
Government has taken positive action in the field of law and order, as promised in the 1975
election manifesto?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I have very great pleasure in answering that question in the
affirmative.
Mr Christie: In the light of the Minister's reply to my original question and in view of his
statement to the National Party conference in Dunedin that he intends to increase police
staffing, surely he can give the projected ratio for the year to March 1978?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY: I shall answer that by telling the honourable member that
in the first couple of months after the National Government assumed office the police
strength was increased by 183. The way things are going, I think the ratio will be much better
by 31 March 1978.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Superannuation-Financing
13. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Postmaster-General: Has he seen the
statement by the member for Onehunga in the Rotorua Daily Post of 28 July that "...the
country cannot afford national superannuation, and they are using every trick in the book to
fund their scheme", and, if so, can he give a categorical denial that it is planned to use any
revenue from the increased Post Office charges towards the financing of that scheme?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): Yes, I have seen the article referred to
and I can categorically deny that it is planned to use any revenue from the increased Post
Office charges to help finance the national superannuation scheme.
Mr Rogers: If the Government does not intend to use the additional Post Office revenue
gained from increased charges, which has amounted to more than $170 million in 2 years, to
fund the national superannuation scheme, can the Minister confirm that the money so
derived will be spent on improving postal services, which have been run down to a low ebb
under this Government?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I can confirm that the money will be used to improve postal
services, in furtherance of the Government's aim to improve postal services generally.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Maori Land Advisory Committee and Maori Landowners
14. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori) asked the Minister of Maori Affairs: In view of
the need to encourage Maori landowners to improve the use and control of their lands, has
he at any time taken advantage of section 13(2)(d) of the Maori Affairs Amendment Act
1974 to require any Maori land advisory committee to undertake special functions or duties
to meet this need?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Maori Affairs): I have not required any Maori land
advisory committee to exercise any specified function under section 13(2)(d); nor can I find


## p. 2216 (#672) ###########################################

2216
17 August
Oral Answers to Questions
any record of such a course being taken since the provision was enacted in 1974. Where it is
possible, I prefer that questions about the use of land should be discussed with the owners of
the land.
Hon. M. Rata: In view of the need referred to in the question, does the Minister not
consider that this is a matter that the advisory councils themselves could take up with the
Maori landowners, and that such action would encourage those owners to adopt good land
use, management, and control of their properties?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: The paragraph of the section referred to reads, "such other
functions as may from time to time be prescribed in any Act, or as may be required of it by
the Minister". I repeat that I have found it more successful to talk with the owners and to
discuss the matter with the committee than to direct the committees personally on each
occasion.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Teachers Salaries Negotiations
15. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the
statement by a Mr A. Clarke of Glenfield College, as reported in the New Zealand Herald
on 5 August, that, as a member of the Auckland Regional PPTA, he was "concerned with
making teaching more attractive for graduates. He did not care about the others", and is the
Minister satisfied that in the current salary negotiations he is receiving representations from
an appropriate cross-section of teaching opinion?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): I have seen the statement referred to.
Negotiations on the PPTA salary claim are being conducted in terms of the State Services
Remuneration and Conditions of Employment Act 1969. I am satisfied that the representa-
tion provided under this Act adequately reflects the interests of all those concerned. The
PPTA is the recognised service organisation representing all secondary teachers. The
Education Service Committee comprises representatives of the Department of Education,
the Secondary School Boards Association, and the State Services Commission, and conducts
negotiations on behalf of the Director-General of Education.
Mr Marshall: Can the Minister confirm, therefore, that the special claims of the non-
graduate teachers and technical teachers, who feel they were left behind in the 1970
settlement, are being adequately represented by the PPTA?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: The PPTA is the only officially recognised representative
organisation of secondary teachers. For many years the body referred to by the honourable
member, the Secondary Assistant Teachers Association, has continually urged successive
Ministers of the Crown, as well as the Director-General of Education, to recognise its
representations on behalf of non-graduate secondary teachers, but the official attitude is that
there is no reason to believe that the PPTA does not adequately and fairly represent the
interests of all secondary teachers.
Mr Wellington: Can I assume from the Minister's last comment that the views expressed
by Mr A. Clarke are not typical of those being expressed by the PPTA in the current
negotiations?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: As far as I know, the current views of the PPTA are the
expressions of members of that organisation, and they are happy and confident that the
PPTA should represent them.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Government Life Insurance Office and Securitibank Collapse
16. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister in Charge of the Government Life
Insurance Office: Is the Government proposing to take any action, other than raising
premiums, to cover the loss of $354,146 incurred by the Government Life Insurance Office
in the collapse of Securitibank?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister in Charge of the Government Life Insurance Office):
The rates of premium charged by the Government Life Insurance Office are determined by
the Government Insurance Commissioner on the advice of the Government Actuary. The
commissioner advises that he has no intention of increasing premiums and in fact was able to
declare bonuses at substantially increased rates for the year ended 31 December 1976. The
loss of $354,146, which represents less than one-thousandth of the policyholders' funds, has
been written off from reserves. It is, however, a matter of concern that the Government Life


## p. 2217 (#673) ###########################################

17 August
2217
Oral Answers to Questions
Insurance Office investment in Securitibank was increased from $177,000 to $354,000 in 1974
during the term of the last Labour Government.
Mr Brill: Before the increased investment by the Labour Government in 1974 in
Securitibank, did that same Government decline an application for a 20 percent interest by
the First National City Bank of America?
Mr SPEAKER: I do not see the relevancy.
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, I can confirm that in February 1973 the First National City
Bank of New York endeavoured to acquire a 20 percent holding in Securitibank, but that
was rejected by the Labour Government.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Will the Minister agree that apart from economic grounds or the
immediate interests of the investors there were sound grounds for reviewing an application
such as that from an overseas applicant?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: It would be prudent to make a very close study of such an
application. However, that happened during the term of the Labour Government, and what
seemed like an attractive offer was in fact declined by that Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Health Centre, Manukau City-Use for Teaching
17. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Health: Will the projected
health centre at Manukau City centre be used by the University of Auckland for teaching
purposes?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): Yes. The department of community medicine of
the University of Auckland school of medicine has been included in discussions since these
first began.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Auckland International Airport-Rescue Services
18. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services: What steps have been taken to improve the rescue services at
Auckland International Airport since it was disclosed in the Auckland Star of 9 July 1977
that the hovercraft had been inoperable for about half of the preceding year?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services):
Marine rescue facilities have been maintained at Auckland International Airport during the
period that the hovercraft has been inoperable by the utilisation of two 16 ft outboard
powered inflatable rescue craft known as Z boats. These carry inflatable 10-man life rafts,
and it is normal practice for these to be used whenever the hovercraft is rendered
unserviceable during maintenance periods or for any other reason.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Is it not a fact that the hovercraft is still not in operation, and, if
so, does the Minister intend to place primary reliance on a substitute craft or find some
better craft that will serve the real needs of the airport?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN: The hovercraft is expected to return to service when a
replacement propeller arrives from the British Hovercraft Corporation. The propeller has
been ordered, and it is expected in New Zealand shortly.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Superannuation Statistics
19. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Of those at present in
receipt of national superannuation, how many are aged (a) between 60 and 64 years, (b)
between 65 and 69 years, (c) 70 years and over, and what percentage does each of these age
categories comprise of total superannuitants?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): At 31 March 1977 there were
108 697 national superannuitants aged 60 to 64 years, 99 106 aged 65 to 69 years, and
163 894 aged 70 years and over. These age categories represent 29.3 percent, 26.7 percent,
and 44 percent respectively of the total number of national superannuitants.
Mr Brill: What proportion of the age group 60 to 64 years would be expected to have
qualified for an age benefit before the means test was abolished?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I cannot give that figure offhand, but if the member would


## p. 2218 (#674) ###########################################

2218
17 August
Oral Answers to Questions
submit another question I should be pleased to get the figure for him.
Mr McLay: In which of the three categories would we find the undeserving elderly the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition has been speaking about in the House in recent weeks?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I am sure he has been referring to the age group 60 to 64 years. It
would seem that a person on the average wage, on attaining the age of 60, would look at his
take-home pay and what he would receive from the benefit tax free, and usually opt for the
benefit.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Nash Papers in National Archives-Removal by SIS
20. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Prime Minister: Who gave the Security
Intelligence Service the right to remove certain reports from the papers of Sir Walter Nash
held by the National Archives?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): It is not correct to say that the SIS
removed certain reports from the papers of Sir Walter Nash held by the National Archives.
What did happen was that certain reports of a highly classified nature were returned to the
SIS, as the originating department, for safe custody.
Mr T. J. Young: Can the Prime Minister confirm that this action was voluntarily taken
by the trustees in charge of those papers?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I have no knowledge of whether it was an action
voluntarily taken by the trustees. The papers belonged in the custody of the SIS, and should
never have been elsewhere.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: If, as the Prime Minister says, they were not taken but returned,
does that not necessarily imply that there was an element of volunteering by the trustees who
gave them up without pressure?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It could certainly mean that. It says here that this was done
following discussions, which is also compatible with the statement I made, but it was not
necessarily a question of volunteering.
Mr T. J. Young: Can the Prime Minister confirm that Sir Walter Nash was in possession
of these classified papers wrongly?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: That, in essence, is my impression. This matter was
discussed in public some time ago. The member will be aware of this and the position about
documents of this kind which is that they come to the Minister in Charge of the Security
Intelligence Service, myself at present, and my procedure is to peruse them, enclose them
immediately in an envelope, and return them by hand to the SIS. That is the proper
procedure, and that procedure has been carried out for as far back as I am aware. I think it is
well known that the old gentleman was an inveterate hoarder of paper, and on these
occasions these papers found their way into his archives. They should not have been there,
and that, I think, is the substance of the matter.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
QUESTIONS AND REPLIES
[Covering period 28 July to 10 August]
WRITTEN QUESTIONS
Level Crossing Protection
1. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Railways: Has he
received any representations in the past 18 months to have barrier arms erected on the rail
crossings in Papanui, Christchurch, at the following road/rail intersections: Glandovey,
Bryndwr, Blighs, Harewood, Langdons, Sawyers Arms, Northcote, and Tuckers Roads;
have there been any New Zealand-wide surveys of the existing protection offered at road/rail
intersections in built-up areas in the last 5 years, and, if so, what were the findings of these
surveys; and how many fatal accidents have occurred at each of the railroad crossings listed
above over the last 5 years?


## p. 2219 (#675) ###########################################

17 August
2219
Questions and Replies
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister or Railways) replied: In July 1976 a representation
was received in respect of the railway level crossings over Clarence Road, Glandovey Road,
Wairakei Road (Bryndwr), Blighs Road, Harewood Road, Langdons Road, Sawyers Arms
Road, and Northcote Road. No New Zealand-wide survey of level crossing protection has
been undertaken during the last 5 years, but special surveys have been undertaken of a
number of crossings, including those mentioned earlier. The surveys have shown the
provision of half-arm barrier warning devices to be justified at Clarence Road and Wairakei
Road, but revealed no substantial evidence to indicate that the other crossings should be
given a higher priority rating. Since 1 January 1970 there has been a fatal accident at the
Wairakei Road (Bryndwr) crossing and one fatal accident at Tuckers Road.
(28/77)
Government Life Insurance Investment Board Meetings
2. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister in Charge of the Government
Life Insurance Office: How many meetings of the Investment Board of the Government Life
Insurance Office have been held since December 1975; and how many meetings of the board
has he attended?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister in Charge of the Government Life Insurance Office)
replied: Formal meetings of the Government Life Insurance Investment Board are held
monthly except in January, and 18 meetings have been held since December 1975. The
Minister in charge of the office has met the investment board formally on one occasion, but
has not taken part in the board's decisions. Decisions are obtained daily by circulation
among board members and confirmed at the monthly board meeting, which, in addition to
confirming decisions already taken, is used as a vehicle for discussion of investment policy.
During the period of the Labour Administration the then Minister in Charge of the
Government Life Insurance Office did not attend any meetings of the investment board.
(28/7/77)
Sheep Measles Cysts
3. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Has
he or his department read the article in the Sunday News on 26 June 1977 in which, among
other things, Whangarei's chief hydatids inspector says he is ". . . . hot on the way carcasses
are tested for hydatids cysts. Carcasses that are found to have five or more taenia ovis cysts
are rejected for export. They are kept for the local market, we eat them, the cysts are those
crunchy bits of gristle you find in meat. . . it would be hard to buy a piece of mutton in New
Zealand today that didn't have taenia ovis cysts in it”, and will he state how much of the
article is true; what steps are being taken to obtain and publish all information about the
incidence of hydatids cysts in sheep meat; and what measures are necessary to counteract the
disease?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture) replied: I have seen the article, and the
major part of it is quite misleading. Written instructions to meat inspection staff require
inspectors to look for Cysticercus ovis (sheep measles) cysts. Those are the Taenia ovis cysts
referred to in the article. Where cysts are found the carcass must be retained for concen-
trated inspection. Cysts are counted and the judgment made depends on the count, but a
difficulty is that only those that can be seen or felt are noted. Obviously the carcass cannot be
mutilated in searching for C. ovis cysts that may or may not be there and which in any case
are not considered to affect humans. The article incorrectly states the fate of carcasses found
to have C. ovis cysts. If more than five cysts are found the carcass is condemned or sent for
pet food and not used locally as the article suggests. If not more than five cysts are found the
carcass is passed for human consumption-but only after cysts are removed. The judgment
for local-consumption meat is no different from that used for export meat. Some countries
prohibit the importation of those C. ovis carcasses retained for a concentrated inspection,
and those same countries prohibit the importation of any carcass retained for any disease,
whether it affects humans or not. Statistics on the incidence of C. ovis are available for
anyone to see. Such statistics are collected from all abattoirs and export slaughterhouses in
New Zealand and published in the annual reports of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Fisheries and the National Hydatids Council. These are readily available public documents.
The measures necessary to counteract the disease are described clearly in the annual reports
of the National Hydatids Council: e.g., dog control, dog dosing, offal and meat treatment
before feeding.
(287777)


## p. 2220 (#676) ###########################################

2220
17 August
Questions and Replies
School Committees General Expenses Grant
4. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the statement
in the 1977 report of the Auckland Education Board that schools are "having to use local
funds for various day-to-day expenses of schools", resulting in inequalities between school
districts, when does he intend to increase this grant?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The grant for general expenses of
school committees was increased by 12.5 percent with effect from 1 April 1977. This
followed an increase of approximately 13 percent approved for the previous year. A further
review of committees' needs is now being carried out in my department, and I hope towards
the end of this year to announce the rates which will apply for 1978.
(28/7/77)
Special Education Facilities, Auckland
5. Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau) asked the Minister of Education: When will the
following facilities for special education be provided: the speech clinics at Wakaaranga,
Sherwood, and Hora Hora primary schools; the room for an adjustment class at Henderson
Primary School; and the units for physically handicapped classes at Papatoetoe South and
Henderson South Schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The speech clinic at Sherwood has
already been built, and the speech clinic for Hora Hora will be put to tender in February or
March 1978. The Auckland Education Board will make provision for the clinic at
Wakaaranga in its 1978-79 draft building programme. The room for the adjustment class at
Henderson is at present under construction. Tenders will be called in February or March
next year for the physically handicapped unit at Papatoetoe South, and provision will be
made in the board's 1978-79 draft building programme for the unit at Henderson South.
(28/7/7)
Intermediate Schools, Auckland
6. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Education: When will a policy statement
be made on the establishment of intermediate schools in developing urban areas served by
non-decapitated primary schools, as requested in the 1976 and 1977 reports of the Auckland
Education Board?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have recently approved a set of
principles to be followed for the establishment of intermediate schools, and my department
will be forwarding a letter within a week to all education boards giving details.
(28/7/77)
School Bus Operators
7. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Education: What measures does he
propose to take to increase rates of remuneration to school bus operators?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: School bus operators are
considered for and may be awarded a school transport contract on the basis of a tendered
rate per kilometre. While the service is in operation the operator may apply to my
department at any time to have his rate reviewed on the basis of costs incurred in providing
the service. A rate may, therefore, be increased whenever an operator can show that he is
required to meet higher costs.
(28/7/77)
Melville High School-Home Science Block
8. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: What were the reasons
for the delays in power reticulation to the relocatable classrooms in the home science block
at Melville High School this year, when was the reticulation originally due for completion,
and when was it finally completed?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The delay in completing the power
reticulation work on the home science block at the school was due to the contractor's
difficulty in obtaining aluminium terminating lugs and switches. These were necessary to


## p. 2221 (#677) ###########################################

17 August
2221
Questions and Replies
connect to the existing terminals, and were obtainable only from Australia. An alternative
was proposed, but in view of the much higher costs involved it was abandoned. The contract
was originally to have been completed on 19 February 1977, and was finally completed on 17
June 1977.
(28/7/77)
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Commission
9. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Health: What original research
was undertaken by the Royal Commission on Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion
before the completion of its report?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The terms of the warrant issued to the royal
commission did not include any reference to its conducting original research. The commis-
sion members were appointed "to receive representations upon, inquire into, investigate,
and report upon" the matters to be considered. The volume of submissions which the
commission received made it necessary for several extensions to the original date of
reporting to be applied for, and the commission's report was not completed until 9 months
after the original date set. The submissions heard at public hearings and the notes of
evidence covered 10 513 pages, and also the commission members were referred to hundreds
of articles and studies in books, journals, and periodicals covering medical, scientific,
psychiatric, and sociological material. The commission was not called upon to conduct its
own research, nor indeed would it have been appropriate for the members appointed to the
commission to do so.
(28/7777)
Education-Examination Fees Increase
10. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: How much extra
money was gained from: (1) the 1976 increase in school certificate fees; (2) increases in
Trade Certification Board fees; (3) increases in Trade Certification Authority fees; and (4)
the levy on films in secondary schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: (1) $394,700; (2) $125,535; (3)
$43,476; and (4) $2,325.
(28/7/77)
Regional Development Suspensory Loans
11. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
Has he seen the report in the Northland Times of 12 July 1977 in which a spokesman for a
Dargaville clothing company, Calman Manufacturing, claimed that even though the
company had met all the requirements for a suspensory loan its application for assistance was
still turned down on the ground that there has been a fall-off in overseas trade following the
recent NAFTA Discussions, and can he tell the House why the fall-off in overseas trade was
considered to have any relevance to an application for loan assistance from a company which
does not in fact manufacture for exports, but distributes its goods in Auckland?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I have seen the newspaper
report referred to and I can say that, contrary to the company's claim, the application by
Calman Manufacturing Ltd. did not meet all the requirements for the approval of a regional
development suspensory loan. Because of the need to preserve confidentiality in respect of
company information I do not propose to comment in detail on the reasons for declining
assistance. However, the reference to the NAFTA agreement on clothing appears to have
been taken out of context. This was only one of the number of factors taken into account in
considering the application, but it was not the main ground for the application being
declined. In so far as there was a reference to NAFTA, it should be noted that, although
Calman Manufacturing Ltd. did not propose to export, its intended products are basic to a
large number of cut, make, and trim manufacturers, and the domestic market has become
more competitive as some of the capacity that would have been used to supply the Australia
market is being switched to production for the domestic market. In these circumstances the
NAFTA situation is relevant to a proposal to expand the capacity of the industry as any new
entrant would need to be extremely well secured to survive.
(29/7/777)


## p. 2222 (#678) ###########################################

2222
17 August
Questions and Replies
Social Workers—Resignations
12. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How many social
workers in the Department of Social Welfare have resigned in each of the last 10 years?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The Department of Social
Welfare came into being on 1 April 1972, and since that date the numbers of social workers
who have resigned from the permanent staff of the department are as follows: 1 April 1972 to
31 December 1972, 17; 1 January 1973 to 31 December 1973, 25; 1 January 1974 to 31
December 1974, 43; 1 January 1975 to 31 December 1975, 49; 1 January 1976 to 31
December 1976, 56; and 1 January 1977 to 30 January 1977, 49.
(29/7/77)
Raupunga-Kotemaori Forestry Project
13. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Forests: Is it
proposed to sell by preferential procedure an area of State Forest Land Block S.F. 143 in the
Raupunga-Kotemaori district, and, if so, why is the normal procedure of advertising for
tenders not being used?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests) replied: It has not been proposed to sell any area
of State forest land in the Raupunga-Kotemaori district by preferential allocation. The land
in question was originally purchased for a grazing/forestry trial in association with the
Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries, but the project had to be abandoned because of the
difficulty and the cost of controlling blackberry. A neighbouring farmer, who also held a
grazing lease over a large part of the area, applied to purchase the land, but this was
declined. The farmer again applied to acquire it so that he could establish from it and his
adjoining land economic units for his two sons and himself. It was subsequently decided that
the most appropriate future land use for the property would be farming. To maintain the
area of land available to the Forest Service for afforestation, the possibility of exchanging the
Raupunga area for other land adjoining the Mohaka State Forest was explored, but without
success. It was then proposed that an exchange could possibly be effected for other land.
However, it has not proved possible so far to find suitable land for this purpose, and it is
therefore proposed that the Raupunga land will be declared Crown land in the Reserves and
Other Lands Disposal Act. As such it will be available for disposal in accordance with the
provisions of the Land Act 1948.
(29/7/77)
Manufacturing Closures-Canterbury
14. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Can he give
the names and the locations of manufacturing concerns in the Canterbury area that have
closed since 1 January 1976 or indicated that they intend to close before the end of next year,
and are there any that proposed to open, but have now decided not to do so?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I am not in a position to
provide detailed company information of this kind. It is up to the companies concerned to
announce their intentions if a commercial judgment has been made to cease operations, or to
consult at an early stage if they wish to explore alternatives. Any such consultations would,
of course, be confidential. No complete lists are held of closures of manufacturing concerns
as there is no obligation on any company to inform the Government of such a move.
However, in the Canterbury region, since 1 January 1976, some 82 companies classified as
factories have advised the Department of Labour of their intention to close, while during the
same period some 109 new factories have been registered in the region.
(29/7/77)
Waikeke Area School-Staffing
15. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Education: Has he received a
letter from the Waiheke Area School's Committee of Management dated 7 July 1977, raising
the difficulties area schools are now facing, and what action does the department intend to
take to increase the number and the quality of teachers at area schools and to improve the
staffing so that the library service, in particular, can be improved?


## p. 2223 (#679) ###########################################

17 August
2223
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Yes, I have received a letter from
the Waiheke Area School Committee of Management, and I have asked for an investigation
to be carried out into the various matters raised so that I can reply. I have no reason to
believe that area schools generally are having staffing difficulties. I do know that in some
specified subjects, notably science, mathematics, and technical, secondary schools are
having difficulty recruiting qualified teachers. To meet this problem the Government has
recently authorised recruitment in the United Kingdom, and this is being actively pursued by
the Department of Education. The department has no proposals for improving the teacher-
pupil ratios in area schools as these are already considered satisfactory. Salary scales for area
school teachers have been the subject of recent negotiations with the clear intention of
making positions in area schools more attractive to teachers. A decision on the proposed
scales is expected from the State Services Tribunal shortly.
(29/7/77)
Manufacturing Closure-Otago
16. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
Can he give the names and the locations of manufacturing concerns in the Otago area that
have closed since 1 January 1976 or indicated that they intend to close the end of next year,
and are there any that proposed to open, but have now decided not to do so?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I am not in a position to
provide detailed company information of this kind. It is up to the companies concerned to
announce their intentions if a commercial judgment has been made to cease operations, or to
consult at an early stage if they wish to explore alternatives. Any such consultations would,
of course, be confidential. No complete lists are held of closures of manufacturing concerns
as there is no obligation on any company to inform the Government of such a move.
However, in the Otago region, since 1 January 1976, some 41 companies classified as
factories have advised the Department of Labour of their intention to close, while during the
same period some 49 new factories have been registered in the region.
(29/7/7)
Linden Home-Admissions
17. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In view of the fact
that there are at least 12 unsettled children from the Porirua area who already qualify for
admission to the Linden Home, which was set up for preventive care with a teacher as
supervisor, can he explain why only three of the seven places in the home have been
allocated to these children and the other four allocated to social welfare wards?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Following the establishment of
the family home in 1975 it was found that the flow of referrals from secondary schools of
children who require the type of care envisaged was sparse and intermittent, resulting in an
uneconomic operation in so far as foster parents were concerned and it was necessary to
admit numbers of State wards to overcome this situation. After the departure of the previous
foster parents on transfer, difficulties were experienced in finding new foster parents and the
opportunity was taken to review the structure and the administration of the home. Under the
new arrangements the Department of Social Welfare runs the family home for State wards in
the normal way, but reserves three places for emotionally disturbed secondary school pupils.
In this way the bed-occupancy rate is maintained, thus enabling the home to operate
economically for the foster parents concerned. Under the new arrangements all referrals
from secondary schools should be made through the psychological services of the Depart-
ment of Education, enabling the family home foster parents to deal only with psychologists
of that department instead of guidance counsellors and other interested persons as occurred
previously. The new arrangements operate in accordance with an agreement reached with
the Minister of Education following the complete revision of the structure and administra-
tion of the home. My department has a responsibility to provide care for children as and
when necessary. On occasions this may require the urgent placement of children away from
their home to ensure their well-being. It is such a situation which has necessitated the
allocation of four places in the Linden home to State wards at the present time. Three places
are reserved for disturbed secondary school pupils, but more may be made available as
necessary and taking into account the needs of other children who may require urgent
placement.
(2/8/77)


## p. 2224 (#680) ###########################################

2224
17 August
Questions and Replies
US Naval Observatory-Use
18. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is it intended
that the observatory which the US Naval Observatory is reported to be planning in the South
Island at either Black Birch or Mt. John should have a defence function either for New
Zealand or for the United States?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) replied: Black Birch and Mt. John
are among a number of possible sites in the Southern Hemisphere that are being considered
by the United States Naval Observatory for the installation and operation of a 7 in.
astronomical telescope. Other sites under consideration are in Western Australia and South
America. The principal requirements are a high number of clear nights and as great a
distance as possible from the Equator. Two members of the observatory staff visited New
Zealand in April and May this year for preliminary discussions with the Carter Observatory
and the University of Canterbury, but no official approaches have been made yet to the
Government. The telescope would be used in a 10-year programme, to be called Operation
Southern Hemisphere Transit Circle, which it is hoped to start about 1980. It would be
concerned with fundamental goeodetic and astronomic positioning, and would be carried out
by up to 10 civilian professional astronomers from the United States, probably with some
local assistance. The results would be publicly available and would be used to improve the
astronomical data published in the Nautical and Air Almanacs. These are produced for use
in navigation by all mariners and air navigators, whether military or civilian.
(2/8/77)
National Art Gallery-Staffing
19. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: Is he aware that the
National Art Gallery director has described the understaffing and shortage of storage space
at the National Art Gallery and the National Museum as a disgrace, and, if so, how does he
intend to alleviate these staffing and accommodation problems for our two national cultural
institutions?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: I have seen the director's
statement. Last month the chairman of the Art Gallery Council sought an increase in staff
for the gallery, and this was promptly referred to the State Services Commission, which is
now considering the request. I have yet to receive the proposals of the board of trustees for
improved storage and accommodation at the gallery and museum, but I understand these
will be forwarded to me shortly. There will be no delay on my part.
(2/78/77)
Women on Statutory Bodies
20. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Education: What progress has
been made by the Department of Education in the implementation of recommendation 2,
chapter 3, of the select committee report on women's rights?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I am very much in agreement with
recommendation 2, chapter 3, from the report of the Select Committee on Women's Rights.
In making appointments to statutory bodies I am keeping in mind that women be appointed.
However, in the case of most of the statutory authorities to which I make appointments,
nomination for membership is also placed by statute in the hands of independent organisa-
tions such as the New Zealand Educational Institute, the Post-primary Teachers Associa-
tion, the University Grants Committee, education boards, the New Zealand Manufacturers
Federation, the Federation of Labour, and so on. In making these appointments I am
therefore largely in the hands of the organisations making the nominations, and it would not
be appropriate for me to suggest whom they should nominate. These organisations have
historically nominated people qualified in particular fields, irrespective of sex. All appoint-
ments to State services positions must, of course, be made in accordance with section 28 of
the State Services Act 1962.
(2/8/77)
Kindergarten Teachers-Salary Increase
21. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Education: What progress has
been made by the Department of Education in the implementation of recommendation 2,
chapter 4, of the select committee report on women's rights?


## p. 2225 (#681) ###########################################

17 August
2225
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: In July 1975, following negotia-
tions between the Education Service Committee and the New Zealand Free Kindergarten
Teachers Association, and submissions by both parties to the State Services Tribunal, the
tribunal approved new salary scales and conditions of employment for kindergarten
teachers, effective from 1 July 1974. The new scales provided substantial salary increases,
and a relationship was established with the salary scales for primary teachers. The select
committee's recommendation refers to ancillary staff but no ancillary staff is employed in
kindergartens.
(2/8/77)
Pre-school Education—Additional Funds
22. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of Education: What progress has
been made by the Department of Education in the implementation of recommendation 1,
chapter 4, of the select committee report on women's rights?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: Since the report of the Select
Committee on Women's Rights was published in June 1975 substantial additional assistance
has been provided for pre-school education from Government funds. The annual allocation
of funds for the 3 years 1975-76, 1976–77, and 1977-78 were, respectively, $6.81 million,
$9.019 million, and $10.9 million. The funds have been allocated to strengthen existing
services, to provide new services where they are needed, and to prepare the way for future
policy decisions of far-reaching consequences. In particular, new policy proposals
announced in the 1977 Budget for pre-school education include measures to: cope as quickly
as possible with the demand for pre-school education in the areas where the existing pre-
school organisations clearly cannot meet it; increase teaching accommodation for young
children by using existing buildings; provide employment for bonded kindergarten teachers
unable to obtain permanent positions in the kindergarten service; recognise the special need
of children in rural and inner city areas and of Maori and Polynesian children; encourage the
continuation of voluntary effort; strengthen the department's advisory services to early
childhood groups.
(2/8/77)
Manufacturing Closures-Wairarapa
23. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Can he give the
names and locations of manufacturing concerns in the Wairarapa area that have closed since
1 January 1976 or indicated that they intend to close before the end of next year, and are
there any that proposed to open, but have now decided not to do so?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I am not in a position to
provide detailed company information of this kind. It is up to the companies concerned to
announce their intentions if a commercial judgment has been made to cease operations, or to
consult at an early stage if they wish to explore alternatives. Any such consultations would,
of course, be confidential. No complete lists are held of closures of manufacturing concerns
as there is no obligation on any company to inform the Government of such a move.
However, in the Wairarapa region since 1 January 1976 some 18 companies classified as
factories have advised the Department of Labour of their intention to close, while during the
same period some 20 new factories have been registered in the region.
(3/8/77)
Manufacturing Closures-East Coast
24. Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Can he
give the names and the locations of manufacturing concerns in the East Coast area that have
closed since 1 January 1976 or indicated that they intend to close before the end of next year,
and are there any that proposed to open, but have now decided not to do so?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I am not in a position to
provide detailed company information of this kind. It is up to the companies concerned to
announce their intentions if a commercial judgment has been made to cease operations, or to
consult at an early stage if they wish to explore alternatives. Any such consultations would,
of course, be confidential. No complete lists are held of closures of manufacturing concerns
as there is no obligation on any company to inform the Government of such a move.
22-Vol. 412


## p. 2226 (#682) ###########################################

2226
17 August
Questions and Replies
However, in the East Coast region since 1 January 1976 some three companies classified as
factories have advised the Department of Labour of their intention to close, while during the
same period some five new factories have been registered in the region.
(3/8/77)
Manufacturing Closures-Southland
25. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Regional
Development: Can he give the names and locations of manufacturing concerns in the
Southland area that have closed since 1 January 1976 or indicated that they intend to close
before the end of next year, and are there any that proposed to open, but have now decided
not to do so?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: I am not in a position to
provide detailed company information of this kind. It is up to the companies concerned to
announce their intentions if a commercial judgment has been made to cease operations, or to
consult at an early stage if they wish to explore alternatives. Any such consultations
would, of course, be confidential. No complete lists are held of closures of manufacturing
concerns as there is no obligation on any company to inform the Government of such a
move. However, in the Southland region since 1 January 1976 some 19 companies classified
as factories have advised the Department of Labour of their intention to close, and during
the same period some 19 new factories have been registered in the region.
(3/8/77)
Film Trade Board-Projectionists' Conditions
26. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: When will the special
subcommittee of the Film Trade Board be appointed to examine the conditions of work and
service of members of the various projectionists' unions throughout New Zealand, and will
this board have union representation?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: Under the provisions of the
Cinematograph Films Act 1976 decisions on the setting up of any subcommittee, and on the
composition of such a subcommittee, are in the hands of the Film Trade Board. Any
interested parties may, of course, make representations to the board.
(3/8/77)
Professional Charges-Hourly Rate Proposal
27. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Is it
correct, as stated in an article in the Evening Post of 19 July, that he is giving consideration to
doctors and other professional people charging for their services on an hourly rate and, if so,
what professions are likely to be considered?
. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: No serious
onsideration has been given to doctors and other professional people charging for their
services on an hourly rate. The Government's policy in respect of the professions following
the lifting of the freeze on professional charges was announced earlier this week.
(3/8/77)
Energy Output Costs
28. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Can he give
up-to-date figures—that is, allowing for the Budget tax on oil fuel and the increase in the
price of gas-for dollar per gigajoule of energy output, additional to those provided in the
answer to my question answered on 26 July?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: The up-to-date figures, as at 1
August 1977, for dollar per gigajoule of energy output, additional to those given in answer to
the member's questions of 26 July, are as follows:
Coal
Fuel oil
Natural gas
Electricity
...
Percent Comparison
With Fuel Oil Price
$ Per Gigajoule
of Energy Output
2.36
59
3.97
100
2.97
75
6.32
159
(4/8/77)


## p. 2227 (#683) ###########################################

17 August
2227
Questions and Replies
Sawmills-Employment
29. Mr WETERE (Western Maori) asked the Minister of Forests: Does the Forest Service
have a policy to ensure that employment at sawmills around the country will not be affected
by cuts in sawlog allocation due to the implementation of the indigenous forest policy, and, if
so, could he supply it?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests) replied: In some instances where there are
reductions in the supply of indigenous logs from State forests there will inevitably be a drop
in sawmill employment. However, to minimise the effect the Government encourages the
substitution of exotic logs wherever this is practicable, and is deliberately planning such a
policy for the region most concerned, namely, the West Coast of the South Island. It is also
Government policy to extend employment by having the wood from the limited supply of
indigenous State forest logs processed to the greatest extent possible in the district in which it
is milled.
(4/8/77)
Forestry-Land Purchases
30. Mr WETERE (Western Maori) asked the Minister of Lands; Can he indicate how
much land has been purchased by the Government for forestry since this Administration
took office?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests) replied: Since the National Government took
office, the following areas of land have been purchased for forestry purposes: 1975-76, 1956
hectares; 1976-77, 5536 hectares; 1977-78, 742 hectares; to the end of July 1977 a total of
8234. The bulk of this land has been purchased to maintain land banks for exotic afforesta-
tion, to fulfil soil and water conservation functions in areas requiring erosion control
measures of protection, and to acquire areas of outstanding scenic or recreational value for
addition to State forest parks.
(4/8/77)
Sawlog Production
31. Mr WETERE (Western Maori) asked the Minister of Forests: Can he supply a table
indicating the estimated supply of sawlogs for the next 10 years?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests) replied: Indicative estimates of the supply of
potential sawlogs over the next 10 years from all ownerships are as follows.
Annual Averages
in Millions m³
1977-80
1981-85
1986-87
...
...
...
...
...
...
7.9
8.8
9.1
It is uncertain at this stage what proportion of these volumes is likely to be sawn. A
portion will be exported in unprocessed form and a portion will be pulped.
(4/8/77)
World Vision-Tax Exemption for Contributions
32. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister in Charge of the Inland
Revenue Department: (1) How many requests have been made to him for contributions to
World Vision to be given some tax exemption and is there any likelihood of this being
granted; and (2) are there any other charities designed to benefit individuals and organisa-
tions overseas that enjoy income tax exemptions for donations made in New Zealand?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department)
replied: (1) Innumerable requests have been made in recent years for contributions to World
Vision to qualify as a special exemption for income tax purposes. As I announced this week,
World Vision will be included in the list of charitable organisations specified in section 58 of
the Income Tax Act 1976. Donations made by individuals and public companies to the
organisation on or after 1 April 1977 will, therefore, qualify as an exemption for income tax
purposes; and (2) donations for the following organisations, which apply funds overseas and
which are specified in section 58 of the Income Tax Act, qualify as a special exemption for
income tax purposes: CORSO, Red Cross, Lepers Trust Board, Mission to Lepers (New
22°


## p. 2228 (#684) ###########################################

2228
17 August
Questions and Replies
Zealand), Volunteer Service Abroad, Commonwealth Foundation, Sir Walter Nash Viet-
nam Appeal, Food Bank of New Zealand, Norman Kirk Memorial Trust Fund, and
UNICEF. To this list will be added the names of World Vision and the Save the Children
Fund.
(4/8/77)
Immigration Officers-Overseas Postings
33. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Immigration: To which countries
were officers of the immigration division of the Department of Labour sent in the last
financial year and in which countries is it intended such officers will do any work in the
present financial year?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration) replied: In the past financial year officers of
the immigration division of the Department of Labour have been sent to replace officers
serving at the New Zealand High Commissions in London, Suva, and Apia, and the New
Zealand Embassy in the Hague. In the current financial year it is anticipated that officers will
be sent to replace staff at present serving at the New Zealand High Commissions in London
and Nuku'alofa. In addition, as I have recently announced, a senior official of the
department will visit Malaysia and Thailand later this month to select the Vietnamese
refugees the Government has announced it will accept. No other staff movements overseas
are anticipated in the current financial year.
(4/8/77)
Regional Development Programme-Restrictions
34. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Regional
Development: Can he (a) indicate each of the restrictions that were placed on the regional
development programme by his Government in 1976, and (b) indicate which of these
restrictions will now be lifted?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: The following restrictions
were placed on the regional development programme on 29 April 1976: (a) New Plymouth
was removed from regional development priority classification; (b) the maximum levels of
assistance for Wanganui, Wairarapa, Taranaki (excluding New Plymouth), and Whangarei
City were altered as follows: (i) suspensory loans on plant and equipment were reduced from
30 percent to 20 percent; (ii) training costs assistance was reduced from 50 percent to 30
percent; (iii) suspensory loans on buildings were reduced from 30 percent to 20 percent; (iv)
suspensory loans on plant and buildings were reduced from 20 percent to 15 percent; (c)
small projects assistance was restricted to communities of up to 10 000 only, excepting
Gisborne and Invercargill; (d) regional development assistance was limited to priority
regions, except in exceptional circumstances; (e) a maximum of $100,000 was placed on
suspensory loans, except where a significant resource-based industry was being established;
(f) regional development assistance was put on a "once only" basis; (g) the maximum for
staff training costs was fixed at $20,000; (h) the maximum for transfer costs was fixed at
$10,000; (i) regional development assistance was to be declined if few employment oppor-
tunities were created by any proposed project. In conjunction with the Budget of 21 July
1977 the following relaxations to these restrictions were announced: (a) New Plymouth was
restored to regional development priority region classification with a maximum level of
10-15 percent of qualifying expenditure for suspensory loans; (b) Taranaki (excluding New
Plymouth), Wanganui (excluding Wanganui City), and Whangarei City were restored to the
top-priority level of up to 30 percent for suspensory loans; (c) applications for assistance in
slow-growth areas other than regional development priority regions will be considered on a
case-by-case basis; (d) the "once only" rule for suspensory loans is relaxed to permit
companies in priority regions to undertake development in phases where appropriate. These
relaxations of restrictions were supplemented by the 1977 Budget measures to introduce: (a)
a "pioneer" status incentive scheme; (b) an establishment grant scheme; and (c) a difference
between north- and south-bound inter-island freight rates.
(4/8/77)


## p. 2229 (#685) ###########################################

17 August
2229
Questions and Replies
World Vision-Tax Exemption Revenue Loss
35. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department:
Have any estimates been made of the loss of revenue which would arise from the addition of
World Vision donations to the charities qualifying for exemption under the Income Tax Act
1976?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department)
replied: Any estimate would be unreliable. World Vision may expect a certain level of
donations, but it is difficult to say how much of this would have a revenue cost. There is no
revenue cost of donations by people not paying tax, by people who already exceed the
allowable giving limit, or by people who switch their giving from one qualifying charity to
another.
(5/8/77)
Student Graduates—Ethnic Analysis
36. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Can he supply for 1976
the numbers of Maori, pakeha, and Pacific Island students who: (a) enrolled at secondary
schools; (b) passed School Certificate in more than three subjects; (c) passed University
Entrance; (d) qualified for a university bursary or scholarship; or (e) graduated from a
university?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: (a) The total number of students
enrolled in secondary schools on 1 July 1976 was 230 291. Of this number, 26 823 were
recorded as Maori students. No information is available on the number of Pacific Island
students included in the total roll figure; (b) available details of students who in 1976 passed
School Certificate in more than three subjects are given below. No separate information is
available about Pacific Island students who sat the examinations in New Zealand. Total
number of full-time New Zealand S.C. candidates 21 212, Maori full-time New Zealand S.C.
candidates 596; (c) 16 656 students passed University Entrance in 1976. The University
Entrance Board does not analyse its results on the basis of ethnic background; (d) 4428
students qualified for a university bursary or scholarship in 1976. The University Entrance
Board does not analyse this information on the basis of ethnic background; (e) 7202 students
completed university degrees, diplomas, and certificates during the year that ended with the
graduation ceremony in 1976. The universities do not keep an ethnic analysis of their
graduates.
(5/8/77)
Public Sector-Employment Levels
37. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of State Services: What have the
employment levels been in the public sector, local bodies, Government corporations, and
others respectively over the past 3 years, expressed as a percentage of the total work force?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services) replied: The following table shows the
employment levels in the public sector and local authorities over the past 3 years, expressed
as a percentage of the total work force:
1975
1976
1977
Total
Numbers
Percentage
of Work
Force
Total
Numbers
Public service
76 795
6.36
79 199
Percentage
of Work
Force
6.48
Total
Numbers
Percentage
of Work
Force
78 894
6.44
Railways
22 568
1.87
22 209
1.82
21.993
1.79
Post Office
35 240
2.92
37 043
3.03
36 400
2.97
Education service
33 948
2.81
34 887
2.85
34 500
2.82
Universities
6 618
0.55
6 740
0.55
6 600
0.54
Hospital service
43 944
3.64
46 032
3.77
37 956
3.10
Armed services
12 670
1.05
12 400
1.01
12 637
1.03
New Zealand Police
Local authorities
4 286
0.35
4.500
0.37
4 598
0.38
42 844
3.55
43 779
3.58
43 941*
3.59
...
Total
...
278 913
23.09
286 789
23.47
277 519
22.65
Total labour force
October 1976 figure: April 1977 figure not available.
1 207 700
1 222 000
1 225 400
(5/8/77)


## p. 2230 (#686) ###########################################

2230
17 August
Questions and Replies
Trainee Chefs-Travel Allowances
38. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Labour: What were the reasons that
prevented trainee chefs from gaining entitlement to travel and accommodation allowances
when attending courses, similar to those provided in many other trades?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Apprentices contracted under the
Apprentices Act 1948 receive travel and lodging allowances while attending approved
courses of trade training. Trainee chefs are not contracted under the Apprentices Act, and
thus are not entitled to these allowances.
(5/8/77)
Massey University-Staffing
39. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: In view of the heavy
workload carried by those lecturers at Massey University who have more extramural than
full-time students, has he any plans to grant full staffing entitlement to extramural students?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The teaching of extramural, as
well as internal, students is a normal part of the duties of the staff of those departments at
Massey University which offer extramural tuition. Extramural students normally take a
smaller number of papers each year than full-time internal students. It is, therefore, usual for
some members of the staff to have responsibility for more extramural students than internal.
However, the numbers of students, internal as well as extramural, at present enrolled is
causing some concern to all the universities, and the chairman of the University Grants
Committee is at present discussing the matter with the vice-chancellors of the universities.
(9/8/77)
Industry Training Boards-Financing
40. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Education: Has he read the fourth annual
report of the Hotel and Catering Industry Training Board and the final comment made by its
chairman: "This board is now of the opinion that the operational expenses of the board
should be met totally by Government; the finance either being from direct taxation or by a
levy on all employers in the industry", and, if so, what action has he taken or will he take on
this matter?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The Vocational Training Council
is responsible for administering the finances of industry training boards, and has made
representations to the Government about the need for increased flexibility in managing the
administration expenses of boards. These proposals have been accepted by the Government,
and new and improved policies will be introduced this year. At present administration costs
of boards are met largely by grants from the Government. Alternative methods of funding
industry training boards are under continuing consideration by the Vocational Training
Council.
(10/8/77)
Secondary School Boards-Overdrafts
41. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the report
in the Manawatu Evening Standard of 21 July, in which it is stated, “The Palmerston North
High School Board has had a $32,000 overdraft for the past year", and, if so, can he indicate
how widespread this situation is in the country secondary schools?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I have seen the report referred to,
but am unable to comment on it as the board has yet to submit its statement of accounts for
the year ended 31 January 1977. However, secondary school boards are required, under the
Education Act, to obtain the prior approval of the Minister of Finance to use overdraft
facilities, and no such application has been made. If the report is true the board has,
therefore, acted illegally, and no doubt the Audit Office will be investigating the position.
As for the general situation, I am aware of some cases where secondary school boards have
had recourse to overdraft facilities. Where my department has been informed of their
difficulties, additional advances have been made to assist them with what have been only
short-term problems.
(10/8/77)


## p. 2231 (#687) ###########################################

17 August
2231
Questions and Replies
New Zealand Literary Fund Grants
42. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Internal Affairs: Can he give the
names of those receiving grants from the New Zealand Literary Fund since 1 January 1976,
and the amount paid to each recipient?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: Listed below are the details of
grants made from the New Zealand Literary Fund since 1 January 1976:
1. Ruth Dallas: $1,250 to assist with a novel for older children;
2. Sylvia Ashton-Warner: $1,250;
3. Phillip Wilson: $1,250;
4. Dunmore Press: $450 for publication of The Pallet on the Floor by R. H. Morrieson;
5. Hodder and Stoughton: $500 for Fifth Season by Phyllis Grant;
6. Outrigger Publishers: $350 for Cave 10,
7. John McIndoe Ltd: $300 for From an Indian Funeral by Vincent O'Sullivan;
8. Dunmore Press: $800 to assist with the publication of The Gaoler by Elsie Locke;
9. Outrigger Publishers Ltd: $400 for NQC 1/3;
10. Mate: $650 for Mate 26;
11. L. H. Kyle: $500 for assistance in writing a novel;
12. Tony Simpson: $1,000 assistance with a book on land conflicts between Maori and
European;
13. Dorothea G. Bremner: $100 grant to assist with a novel;
14. Fiona Kidman: $1,000 to complete a novel;
15. Outrigger Publishers Ltd: $500 to assist with the publication of a collection of short
stories by Barry Mitcalfe;
16. University of Otago Press: $390 to assist publication of Song for a Guitar and Other
Songs by Ruth Dallas;
17. Caxton Press: $5,500 to assist with Landfall for 1976;
18. Outrigger Publishers Ltd.: $400 for New Quarterly Cave 1/4;
19. Islands: $5,500 to assist with Islands for 1976;
20. PEN grant to assist young writers' award: $600;
21. Jennifer Compton: $4,000 writing bursary for 1977;
22. John McIndoe Ltd: $750 for Other Lovers by Roderick Finlayson;
23. Michael Jackson: $500 for Latitudes of Exile;
24. Michael Harlow: $4,000 in a second writing bursary;
25. Stephen Higginson: $1,000 to write fulltime for 5 months;
26. Hone Tuwhare: $1,500 to assist with a play;
27. O. E. Middleton: special grant of $1,500;
28. Oxford University Press: $400 for publication of Butcher & Co. by Vincent O'Sullivan;
29. Pilgrims: $400 for Pilgrims 2;
30. Cave: $400 for NQC II/1;
31. Heinemann Educational Books (N.Z.) Ltd.: $500 for Reefs of Fire by Keith Sinclair;
32. Auckland University Press: $145 for Spells for Coming Out by Ian Wedde;
33. Pegasus Press Ltd.: $375 for Poems for Rachel, by Lauris Edmond;
34. Pisces Print: $500 for Ecce Homo by John Summers;
35. Hawk Press: $800 to purchase type, repair printing press, and purchase further
equipment;
36. Pat White: $500 to assist with research for his various projects;
37. Outrigger Publishers Ltd.: $400 to assist New Quarterly Cave Vol. II, No. 2;
38. Special grant of $1,300 to Margaret Sutherland to assist her with her writing;
39. Dunmore Press Ltd.: $600 to Come High Water by Denis Glover;
40. Outrigger Publishers Ltd.: $400 to assist New Quarterly Cave Vol. II, No. 3;
41. Pilgrims: $400 for Pilgrims 3;
42. Mate: $1,000 for Mate 27;
43. Spiral: assistance for the publication of the second issue of Spiral, $150;
44. Richard Turner: application for assistance to pay fees to poets taking part in a film on
the poetry of contemporary Maoris-$500 to script writer; approval in principle
was recommended to pay the fee (not more than $1,000) to poets taking part in the
film.
(10/8/77)


## p. 2232 (#688) ###########################################

2232
17 August
Questions and Replies
Book Production Inquiry
43. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Has he yet
received the report of the book production inquiry of the Industries Development Commis-
sion held last October, and, if so, when will the report be made public?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: I have not
received this report and consequently cannot indicate when the report will be publicly
released.
(10/8/77)
Small Hydro Schemes-Sites
44. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Would he
indicate the sites or localities of the possible 19 small hydro-electric schemes mentioned in
his address to the municipal electric supply authorities in Wellington on 28 July 1977?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: The 19 possible schemes are
listed below under the different local supply authorities. The list is, of course, subject to
amendment. (1) West Coast Electric Power Board, Dillmanstown scheme; (2) Tauranga
Joint Generating Committee, Mangapapa, Ruahihi; (3) Bay of Plenty Electric Power Board,
Aniwhenua; (4) North Canterbury Electric Power Board, Hurunui; (5) Rotorua Area
Electricity Authority, Rangitaiki-Whaio (development in three stages); (6) Taupo Borough
Council, Hinemaiaia (expansion of Station Hinemaiaia HA plus new station Hinemaiaia
HC); (7) King Country Electric Power Board, Karioi; (8) Egmont Electric Power Board,
Patea River; (9) Otago Central Electric Power Board, Teviot (2 stations); (10) Central
Waikato Electric Power Board, Waikato River; (11) Wanganui-Rangitikei Electric Power
Board, Narrows, Ngawaka, Mangawhero (three schemes under investigation, of which the
best two will be proceeded with); (12) Buller Electric Power Board, Charming Creek; (13)
Dunedin City Council, Lee Stream; (14) Otago Electric Power Board, Great Moss; (15)
Horowhenua Electric Power Board, Upper Otaki River; (16) Central Canterbury Electric
Power Board, Forks River; (17) North Auckland Electric Power Board, Kaihu River; (18)
Nelson City Council, Waimea Electric Power Board, Marlborough Electric Power Board,
joint scheme under investigation; (19) Thames Valley Electric Power Board, scheme under
investigation.
(10/8/77)
Electoral Rolls-Place and Street Index
45. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Justice: In view of his reply to the
member for Christchurch Central in a question for written answer, dated 26 July 1977, that
"It will be possible to print a list of towns and streets within each boundary”, (a) when will
this list be available; and (b) will each member of Parliament be able to receive one?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: The preparation of the index is not
required in advance of the reallocation of electors to new electorates on this occasion, as the
reallocation will be done by reference to meshblock numbers. The index of places and streets
will merely be a byproduct of the printout of the new electoral rolls and will be available in
time to assist in the conduct of the poll. Additional copies could be made available, although
limited numbers are printed. This index is likely to be available by June 1978.
(10/8/77)
Factory Workers, Wairarapa
46. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he give the number of
employees who (a) were employed in 18 factories which have signified their intention to
close since 1 January 1976 and (b) are at present employed by 20 new factories registered in
the Wairarapa since 1 January 1976 and mentioned by the Minister of Regional Develop-
ment in his reply to my question on 2 August?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The number of persons employed in
the 18 factories in the Wairarapa which have closed or signified their intention to close since
1 January 1976 was 103. No information is available on the number of persons at present
employed in the 20 new factories registered in the Wairarapa since 1 January 1976, but the
total number employed at the time the factories were registered was 171. Some factories may
subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)


## p. 2233 (#689) ###########################################

17 August
2233
Questions and Replies
Factory Workers, Canterbury
47. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he give the number of
employees who (a) were employed in 82 factories which have signified their intention to
close since 1 January 1976 and (b) are at present employed by 109 new factories registered in
Canterbury since 1 January 1976, and mentioned by the Minister of Regional Development
in his reply to my question on 29 July?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The number of persons employed in
the 82 factories in Canterbury which have closed or signified their intention to close since 1
January 1976 was 1061. No information is available on the number of persons at present
employed in the 109 new factories registered in Canterbury since 1 January 1976, but the
total number employed at the time the factories were registered was 1317. Some factories
may subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)
Health Pilot Scheme, Northland
48. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Health: In view of the fact that the
last bulletin issued by the Special Advisory Committee on Health Services Organisation was
in November 1976, can he say: (a) what progress has been made by the committee in
establishing a pilot scheme in Northland; and (b) what effects the proposed reorganised
health service would have on such groups as health inspectors at present employed by local
authorities?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: (a) Since publishing the bulletin in
November last year, the Special Advisory Committee on Health Services Organisation has
been working on a statement of objectives and a detailed plan of action for the introduction
of a pilot scheme in Northland. This work is nearing completion, and the committee plans to
visit Northland later this year to begin discussions on its proposals with all interested parties.
(b) At present there are no proposals which will affect the employment of groups such as
local authority health inspectors. The Special Advisory Committee on Health Services
Organisation is hopeful, however, that under the pilot scheme for reorganisation it will be
possible for all who provide health services in one form or another to be involved in the
planning and review process.
(10/8/77)
Factory Workers, East Coast
49. Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he give the number
of employees who (a) were employed in three factories which have signified their intention
to close since 1 January 1976 and (b) are at present employed by five new factories registered
in the East Coast since 1 January 1976, and mentioned by the Minister of Regional
Development in his reply to my question on 2 August?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The number of persons employed in
the three factories in the East Coast which have closed or signified their intention to close
since 1 January 1976 was eight. No information is available on the number of persons at
present employed in the five new factories registered in the East Coast since 1 January 1976,
but the total number employed at the time the factories were registered was 11. Some
factories may subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)
Factory Workers, Southland
50. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he
give the number of employees who (a) were employed in 19 factories which have signified
their intention to close since 1 January 1976 and (b) are at present employed by 19 new
factories registered in Southland since 1 January 1976, and mentioned by the Minister of
Regional Development in his reply on 2 August?


## p. 2234 (#690) ###########################################

2234
17 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The number of persons employed in
the 19 factories in Southland which have closed or signified their intention to close since 1
January 1976 was 93. No information is available on the number of persons at present
employed in the 19 new factories registered in Southland since 1 January 1976, but the total
number employed at the time the factories were registered was 153. Some factories may
subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)
Factory Workers, Otago
51. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he give the
number of employees who (a) were employed in 41 factories which have signified their
intention to close since 1 January 1976 and (b) are at present employed by 49 new factories
registered in Otago since 1 January 1976, and mentioned by the Minister of Regional
Development in his reply to my question on 29 July?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: The number of persons employed in
the 41 factories in Otago which have closed or signified their intention to close since 1
January 1976 was 295. No information is available on the number of persons at present
employed in the 49 new factories registered in Otago since 1 January 1976, but the total
number employed at the time the factories were registered was 218. Some factories may
subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)
Child Care-Government Involvement
52. MARILYN WARING (Raglan) asked the Minister of State Services: What progress
has been made by the State Services Commission in the implementation of recommendation
7, chapter 6, of the report of the select committee on women's rights?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services) replied: The State Services Commission
is to begin the review of the departmental responsibility for the central Government's child
care involvement in September 1977.
(10/8/77)
Factory Workers, Northland
53. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he give the
number of factories in the North Auckland region which have either (a) closed, or (b)
indicated that they intend to close later this year or next year, and (c) any new companies
classed as factories which have registered since 1 January 1976, together with the number of
employees employed in the factories in categories (a) and (b) and at present employed by
those in category (c)?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Since 1 January 1976, 17 factories
within the manufacturing industry in Northland have closed or officially notified their
intention to close, and 11 new factories have been registered. The number of persons
employed in the 17 factories in Northland which have signified their intention to close since 1
January 1976 was 35. No information is available on the number of persons at present
employed in the 11 new factories registered in Northland since 1 January 1976, but the total
number employed at the time the factories were registered was 61. Some factories may
subsequently have increased their staff levels.
(10/8/77)
ORAL QUESTIONS
Transferred as Written Questions under S.O. 82
Visitors from Main Marketing Areas
54. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) to ask the Minister of Tourism: What are the latest
figures available for visitor numbers from our main marketing areas?


## p. 2235 (#691) ###########################################

17 August
2235
Questions and Replies
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism) replied: Visitor arrivals from New
Zealand's main marketing areas for the 12 months to May 1977 are:
From
Australia
United States
Canada
United Kingdom
W. Europe ...
Japan
...
...
Pacific Islands
Other Countries
Total
:
:
1977
218 496
1976
Percentage
Change
231 358
--
- 5.6
53 986
49 830
+ 8.3
12 828
12 630
+ 1.6
25 516
26 532
- 3.8
13 612
11 572
+ 17.6
10 890
23 364
9 120
28.398
+ 19.4
21 264
15 782
- 17.7
+34.7
379 956
385 222
-
1.4
(29/7/7)
Acupuncture
:
:
55. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) to ask the Minister of Health: Does he intend to
give a definite statement to the Consumers Institute on the role of acupuncture in New
Zealand and, if so, would he indicate if appropriate legislation may follow to prevent what
the institute refers to as this valuable phase of pain relief "becoming a fashionable cult with
unscrupulous practitioners jumping on the bandwagon"?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: I agree in general with the views expressed
by the Consumers Institute on the potential dangers of acupuncture. It was for this reason
that the Health Amendment Bill to control the practice of acupuncture was introduced and is
now before the Social Services Committee so that all evidence on this matter may be
considered.
(297777)
Regional Development Mortgage Advances
56. Mr BELL (Gisborne) to ask the Minister of Regional Development: Could he advise
the total Development Finance Corporation regional development mortgage advances in the
East Coast Council area in the years ended 30 June 1976 and 30 June 1977?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: The Development Finance
Corporation provided mortgage advances totalling $60,000 for the year ended 30 June 1976
and $41,500 for the year ended 30 June 1977 to the East Coast development area. It should
be noted that the Development Finance Corporation does not normally provide mortgage
finance, i.e., loans for buildings, but concentrates mainly on medium-term loans covering
plant and equipment requirements.
(29/7/7)
Waiau Pa Site-Electric Power Generation
57. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) to ask the Minister of Electricity: What is to
prevent the Government making a clear announcement of its intention as to the use of the
Waiau Pa site for an electric power generation station well before the beginning of
September, by which time numerous objectors to the favourable decision of the Franklin
County Council will have to incur further expenses in prosecuting appeals; expense and
trouble that will be needless if the Government abandons the project?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity) replied: Two extensive engineering studies have
been undertaken to resolve a number of uncertainties associated with possible adoption of a
combined cycle plant for the Auckland area. At this stage the work has not been completed,
and until it has been there can be no grounds for abandoning the present general concept of a
conventional station. I am confident that a clear decision will be reached before this matter
comes to appeal, but it is not possible to defer the present statutory period for objections.
(29/7/77)
Racing and Trotting-Broadcast Commentaries
58. Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) to ask the Minister of Internal Affairs: Is he aware
of the deep concern of the racing and trotting clubs of New Zealand at the new system Radio


## p. 2236 (#692) ###########################################

2236
17 August
Questions and Replies
New Zealand is introducing, curtailing commentaries on doubles races and mid-week racing
generally; has he had any representations from clubs about the harmful effect on their future
finances, and, if so, does he intend to make representations to the Broadcasting Corporation
emphasising that much of the $23 million expected to go to the Government in totalisator
duty will no longer be paid?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Internal Affairs) replied: I am aware of the concern of
the racing and trotting clubs over this matter and I know that the Racing and Trotting
Conferences have decided to set up a subcommittee of members of their executives and
representatives of the Totalisator Agency Board and the New Zealand Racing Authority to
consider what action should be taken. I have not had any written representations from clubs,
but I have been informed of the deep concern of the industry through discussions with
members of the Racing Authority and Racing and Trotting Conferences. I have also
received many personal representations from members of the public. As Minister in charge
of racing I am worried as to the possible financial effects on the industry because of the
decision to curtail the dissemination of racing information, and it is my intention to
communicate my concern to the Broadcasting Corporation.
(29/7/77)
Social Security Appeal Authority
59. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) to ask the Minister of Justice: What is the normal time that
elapses between the appeal authority of the Department of Social Welfare making a decision
and a complainant being informed of that decision?
Hon. 'DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: Written decisions of the Social
Security Appeal Authority are normally forwarded by mail to appellants or their solicitors
on the day they are handed down by the authority.
(29/7/77)
ORAL QUESTIONS
Unions-Voluntary Unionism Ballots
60. Mr LATTER (Marlborough) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he read the following
remarks by Mr Bill Andersen, as reported in New Zealand Truth of 19 July 1977: "The
Government's proposals are for State-run ballots to include supervisors and non-union staff
in the ballot in any particular industry"; and, if so, do Mr Andersen's comments reflect
correctly the Government's proposals for ballots on voluntary unionism?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: I have read Mr Andersen's remarks as
reported in New Zealand Truth of 19 July. They do not accurately reflect the Government's
proposals for ballots on the unqualified preference provision. Voting rights are restricted to
adult workers who are, or will be, bound by the award or collective agreement that is the
subject of the ballot. Mr Andersen's reference to State-run ballots is emotive. The ballots
will be conducted by the Registrar of Industrial Unions, who has had a responsibility for
conducting ballots on union membership since 1961.
(28777)
Fish Processing Plant and Equipment-Finance
61. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Will the Government make
available at reasonable interest rates the money necessary to meet costs of improving and
upgrading fish processing plant and equipment to meet the requirements contained in the
Fish (Packing for Export) Regulations 1977?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Fisheries: The 1976 Budget stated that industries implementing comprehensive industry
development plans in line with the Government's broad objectives would be eligible for an
investment allowance of up to 40 percent on manufacturing plant and machinery. This policy
was restated in the 1977 Budget, which added that new policy instruments will be developed
as necessary to assist industries to expand or restructure as indicated by their development
plans. Work is currently in hand for the production of such a development plan for the
fishing industry, in the light of the requirements of the recently introduced Fish (Packing for
Export) Regulations 1977.
(28/7/777)


## p. 2237 (#693) ###########################################

17 August
2237
Questions and Replies
Estate House Tenancy Scheme
62. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Housing: Does the new 6-year State house
tenancy scheme apply to existing tenants who voluntary exchanged their now oversize house
for a smaller one more suited to their present needs?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: No, providing the existing tenant
had signed the old form of tenancy agreement, which is not limited to a term of 6 years.
(28/7/77)
International Airports-Full-time Nurses
63. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Has he read the reported statement in the New Zealand Herald of 12 July 1977 by
the Auckland airport superintendent and chairman of the medical safety committee that the
"lack of a full-time nurse had been raised with the Ministry of Transport but no action had
been taken"; is he aware that according to this report, a full-time nurse is required at any
international airport; and what steps is he taking to ensure that a full-time nurse is stationed
at all of New Zealand's international airports?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: Yes, I have seen the report in the New Zealand Herald referred to by the
honourable member. As far as I know, there is no international requirement for nurses to be
stationed at New Zealand's international airports.
(28/7/77)
Oil Imports by OECD Countries
64. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: According
to International Energy Committee projections, how many barrels of oil are imported by
OECD nations per day, and how many is it estimated will be imported in 1985?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Energy Resources: In 1975 23.4 million barrels a day of oil were imported by OECD nations.
The secretariat of the OECD, of which the International Energy Agency forms a part, has
estimated that, assuming "present policies"—the estimates were prepared in 1976-for
supply expansion and conservation continue, OECD countries will be importing 35 million
barrels of oil a day in 1985. With accelerated development of indigenous resources and
increased emphasis on conservation this figure could, the secretariat considers, be reduced
to 24.4 million barrels of oil a day.
(28/7/77)
EIB-Training of Intelligence Officers
65. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert),
asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is the report in the Christchurch Star of 9 July correct
in stating that the resources of overseas posts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the
Department of Trade and Industry are being used to train intelligence officers attached to
the EIB, and, if so, how many and which overseas postings within the Ministry of Foreign
Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry are being held by intelligence officers of
the EIB?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs: The resources of the overseas posts of the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and the Department of Trade and Industry are not being used to give
intelligence training to officers of the External Intelligence Bureau. It is not uncommon for
departments to arrange inter-departmental exchanges to broaden the professional experi-
ence of their staff. One EIB officer has been seconded on this basis to the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. He is serving overseas, and is undertaking duties assigned by his adoptive
service—that is, the normal range of tasks of a junior foreign service officer. The host
Government was given this background to avoid any possible misunderstandings.
(28/77777)


## p. 2238 (#694) ###########################################

2238
17 August
Questions and Replies
Regional Development Suspensory Loans, East Coast
66. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Regional Development: Could he advise
the total regional development suspensory loan advances in the East Coast council area in
the years ended 31 March 1976 and 31 March 1977?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Regional Development: For the years ended 31 March 1976 and 31 March 1977 the values of
the regional development suspensory loans in the East Coast Regional Development
Council area were $100,820 and $147,000 respectively.
(28/7/777)
Soccer World Cup Congress—“Two Chinas”
67. Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Has he read the article
in the Auckland Star of 19 July 1977, which reported the Secretary of the Oceania Football
Confederation, Mr Charlie Dempsey, warning that "New Zealand must beware of taking
sides in the 'two Chinas' quarrel brewing for the Soccer World Cup Congress next year”, and
does he accept the concept of "two Chinas", and, if not, will he advise Mr Charlie Dempsey
accordingly?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs: "I do not think that any New Zealand organisation
interested in these matters should be in any doubt about the Government's firm views on this
point of principle in our relations with China. The New Zealand Government recognises the
People's Republic of China as the sole legal Government of China."
(28/7/7)
Indigenous Timber Price Increase
68. Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel) asked the Minister of Forests: To what extent has the
increase in the price of indigenous timber been reflected by a reduced demand for native
timber and an increase in the use of exotic woods?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests) replied: There have been two recent increases in
sawn timber prices. On 14 March 1977 increases in exotic and indigenous prices were granted
on the basis of economic submissions by sawmillers, and on 1 June 1977 further increases
were granted in prices for the decorative grades of indigenous timber, the objects of the
latter increase being to encourage maximum recovery of the higher grades, and greater
discrimination in the end use of indigenous timber. Apart from the effect of any price
movements, the volume of indigenous sawn timber has declined. In the year ended 31 March
1976 roundwood removals from State forests amounted to 4 360 000 cubic metres, with
530 000 cubic metres, or 12 percent, coming from the indigenous forests, and 3 830 000 cubic
metres, or 88 percent, from exotic. Provisional figures for 1976-77 show a marked drop from
indigenous forests to 433 000 cubic metres, or 9 percent of the total, and a substantial
increase in exotic wood removals, which reached 4 352 000 cubic metres, or 91 percent. At
present it is too early to be able to judge what effect the latest increase in the price of
indigenous timber will have on the future demand for native timber and the use of exotic
woods.
(28/7/77)
Woollen Mill, Ashburton
69. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: In view of his
confirmation in the Dominion of 24 June 1977 that the Government would make "every
endeavour" to ensure that the woollen mill in Ashburton continues its operations, can he tell
the House what steps he has taken so far to ensure that the mill does not close, and can he
indicate when negotiations with Mosgiel will be completed and what assistance the Govern-
ment is prepared to offer to ensure the mill's continued viability?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: In conjunc-
tion with the member of Parliament for South Canterbury, the steps I have taken to ensure
that if possible, the woollen mill is retained in Ashburton are to encourage the formulation
of proposals to take it over as a viable operation and to indicate a willingness to consider the
provision of assistance to that end. This has resulted in the submission of a proposal, which
the Government is now assessing, by Mosgiel Ltd, to take over and incorporate the Alford


## p. 2239 (#695) ###########################################

17 August
2239
Questions and Replies
Forest Mill within the operations of the Mosgiel group. While the Government desires to do
what it can to preserve employment at the Alford Forest Mill, this is a complex matter, and
careful consideration must be given to all the factors involved. At present I cannot indicate
when negotiations will be completed, or what assistance might be offered to Mosgiel. The
matter is being treated with the utmost urgency.
(2877777)
State Rental Houses, Gisborne-Rent Arrears
70. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Housing: What was the level of arrears of
rental payments in State houses administered from the Gisborne office of the Housing
Corporation as at 30 June 1977, how many cases of arrears does this cover, and what steps
have been taken to recover those arrears?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: The level of arrears of rental
payments in State houses administered from the Gisborne office of the Housing Corporation
as at 24 June 1977, the latest accounting figures available, totalled $21,943 involving 112
tenants. This represents arrears of 9.58 percent, compared with a national average of 7.19
percent. The corporation has, over recent months, carried out an extensive drive in
Gisborne to impress upon defaulting tenants the consequences if their arrears are not paid. I
am pleased to be able to report a reduction of $4,594, involving 24 tenants, in the last 4-week
period. This represents a drop from 11.63 percent to the 9.58 percent I mentioned. The
corporation is continuing to give attention to the problem, and I will keep the honourable
member informed of the progress made.
(28/7/77)
Social Welfare Workers
71. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How many social
workers have left the Department of Social Welfare in the last 18 months?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: One hundred and twenty-two
social workers left the Department of Social Welfare during the 18-month period from 1
January 1976 to 30 June 1977
(29/7/77)
Christchurch-Lyttelton Road Tunnel Authority-Revenues
72. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Finance: Can he confirm that the
revenues of the Lyttelton Road Tunnel Authority have fallen sharply in relation to increased
costs since the withdrawal of the Rangatira service, and does he now propose to increase the
tunnel tolls to compensate for this loss in revenue?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: The Christchurch-Lyttelton
Road Tunnel Authority has sent me a brief summary of its revenues and costs over the past 8
years, together with an estimate for the 1977-78 year. This summary shows that for the
current financial year a small excess of expenditure over revenue is expected. However, the
figures do not indicate that the projected fall in revenue is due to the withdrawal of the
Rangatira service. Indeed, I note that there was a bigger increase in receipts for the 1976-77
year, during which the Rangatira service was withdrawn, than for many of the earlier years.
If the authority formally applies for my approval to an increase in the toll charges, and
adequately supports its case, then every consideration will be given to its application
(29/7/77)
Post-Primary Schools—General Expenses Grant
73. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What increases in
the general expenses grant for post-primary schools have been authorised since December
19752
Hon H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Education: An increase of 12.5 percent in the grant for general expenses of secondary
schools was approved with effect from 1 February 1976. A further increase of 15 percent has
been approved from 1 April 1977. In addition, provision has been made for supplementary
grants for light, heating, and water costs, which in effect are inflation proof.
(297777)


## p. 2240 (#696) ###########################################

2240
17 August
Questions and Replies
Electricity and Gas Users-Payment of Accounts
74. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Electricity: Has he read an article in the
Otago Daily Times of 12 July 1977 that "many electricity and gas users in the Dunedin area
are having to be pressured into paying their latest power bills by the Dunedin City
Corporation", and, if so, has he any information to indicate that this disturbing trend is
being reflected in other parts of New Zealand?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity) replied: I have read the article referred to.
Following up overdue accounts is a normal part of a supply authority's operations, and
disconnection warning notices are necessary for late payers. If firm credit control is not
maintained, a consumer's indebtedness would continue to increase to such an extent that the
account could never be paid, and disconnection would be inevitable. The policy of a quick
follow-up does result in fewer disconnections. The point is that although the number of
warnings has increased, the article does indicate that the number of disconnections has
remained steady at six or seven a week. I would expect the position to be much the same
throughout the country.
(29777)
Rarotongan Hotel
75. Mr TALBOT (South Canterbury) asked the Minister of Tourism: Can he give any
indication of the success or otherwise of the Tourist Hotel Corporation's participation in the
Rarotongan Hotel?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism) replied: The Rarotongan is owned by a
private company, Cook Islands Hotels Ltd, whose three equal shareholders are the Cook
Islands Government, Air New Zealand, and the Tourist Hotel Corporation. Tourist Hotel
Corporation participation in the venture is not only as a share holder; it also has the contract
to manage the hotel. All the indications are that the Rarotongan will be a success. I am
pleased to be able to tell the honourable member, and the House, that not only are the
design and planning of buildings a success, but also the hotel was completed and opened 3
months earlier than originally anticipated. Another success is the level of occupancy. From
the successful promotional efforts of both the THC and Air New Zealand, it appears that
forward bookings for the next 3 months will ensure that more than 90 percent of rooms will
be occupied. It is probable that an annual average occupancy of 70 percent will be achieved
for the first stage of this year.
(29/7/77)
Waiheke County Council Rates
76. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Local Government: Has he
seen the two Waiheke County Council rates notices in the New Zealand Herald of 20 July in
which the rate in cents per dollar varies inversely with the land value of the property, and can
he state whether such rating is in accordance with the differential rating provisions of the
Counties Act 1956?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government) replied: I have seen the public
notice referred to. In relation to differential rating, the Counties Act 1956 provides that a
council may divide the county into differential rating areas. Any one differential rating area
may be a combination of several individual properties not necessarily contiguous with one
another. A county council is empowered to make and levy rates of varying amounts in the
dollar as between differential rating areas. Subject to the maximum total rates prescribed in
the Act, a council in its own discretion may determine the rate to be levied in each such
differential rating area. If it comes to a contest as to whether or not the Waiheke County
Council has complied with the letter of the law, this must, of course, be left to the courts to
resolve.
(29/7/7)
Kaimai Railway Tunnel
77. Mr LUXTON (Piako) asked the Minister of Railways: Is he able to give a date for the
regular use of the Kaimai railway tunnel?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: Present indications are that
the Kaimai tunnel should be in use about August 1978.
(29/7/77)


## p. 2241 (#697) ###########################################

17 August
2241
Questions and Replies
Radio Single Sideband Equipment for Fiji
78. Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) asked the Minister of Foreign Affairs: Is it true that radio
single sideband equipment for supply to Fiji under aid was purchased in Australia, though in
fact made in New Zealand?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Foreign Affairs: The Fiji Authorities asked New Zealand to supply, under
the bilateral aid programme, 20 Australian-made radio transceivers for use in small marine
vessels. This request was considered as part of a programme of New Zealand assistance to
transportation for the outer islands of Fiji. The merits of similar New Zealand - made
equipment were naturally drawn to the attention of the Fiji authorities. However, Fiji
already employs the same Australian equipment, and the Fiji authorities were concerned
about standardisation of equipment and uniform training of maintenance officers. The issue
of standardisation and maintenance is a particularly difficult problem in all our Pacific aid
programmes, and the New Zealand Government has agreed to play its part in trying to
reduce the complications of too many different sorts of equipment. The Australian marine
transceivers were accordingly purchased for Fiji. In general, however, it remains the
Government's policy to provide New Zealand - made equipment under the aid programme
to the maximum extent possible.
(29/7/777)
Hotel Accommodation—Tavern Levy Fund
79. Mr H. N. AUSTIN (Hobson), on behalf of Mr COOPER (Otago Central), asked the
Minister of Housing: What allocations to accommodation development have been made
through the 3 percent tavern levy fund?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: The allocations for the financial
year ended 31 March 1977 for accommodation development amounted to $2.37 million, and
for the first quarter of the current financial year $1.9 million had been allocated.
(29/7/77)
Hawke's Bay Education Board
80. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Education: Has he seen the article in the
Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 16 July 1977 in which the Chairman of the Hawke's Bay
Education Board, Mr J. A. Halford, described it as a "cause for alarm" that the board will
not be able to catch up on maintenance work; and, if so, can he indicate when education
boards will receive enough money for this work?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Education: "I have seen the article referred to, and am somewhat surprised at the
comments. In the last 3 years the level of the maintenance grant has been increased by 10,
11, and 11 percent respectively. Therefore, the money spent in the maintenance area has
been increased. I am even more surprised because, in addition, in the last two financial years
the Department of Labour has financed an accelerated maintenance scheme in selected
areas, and Hawke's Bay was one of the areas selected. Nevertheless, the board there took
advantage of the scheme only to the extent of approximately $31,000 worth of work at four
schools."
(29/7/77)
Secondary School Teachers-Recruitment
81. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Education: What steps have
been taken to recruit additional qualified secondary school teachers in certain specialised
subject fields?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Education: This year's recruitment campaign has been designed to attract people who are
qualified in the subject areas in which shortages of secondary teachers exist. In addition, the
Government has approved a scheme to recruit secondary teachers in the United Kingdom in
specified categories.
(29/7/77)


## p. 2242 (#698) ###########################################

2242
17 August
Questions and Replies
Hawke's Bay Schools-Absenteeism
82. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Education: What action does he
propose to take to meet the absenteeism problem in the Hawke's Bay schools, described in
the Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 16 July 1977 as "very worrying"?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Education: "I have seen the press report referred to. Surveys conducted by the Hawke's Bay
Education Board show no significant difference in the incidence of truancy during the last 2
years. In some districts, however, it remains a cause for concern. My department is
developing with the education boards, teachers, and other departments a comprehensive
national programme which is already proving useful in reducing truancy in the Hawke's Bay
and other districts. This programme is being extended as the information gained from
existing pilot programmes is evaluated and made available to schools and other agencies
concerned. The programme involves a circular which will give guidance to principals; a
national survey on absenteeism; reviews of the teaching programmes for pupils at risk for
truancy and of the procedures used to check attendances and follow up unexplained
absences; and a review of liaison with parents and with other agencies which have
responsibilities in this matter?"
(297777)
Telephone Exchanges at Waipawa, Waipukurau, and Porangahau
83. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Postmaster-General: When will the manual
exchanges in Waipawa, Waipukurau, and Porangahau be replaced with automatic
exchanges?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: It is planned to replace the
Waipukurau manual with an automatic exchange early in 1979, and to convert Porangahau
to automatic soon after. Waipawa is programmed for conversion in the early 1980s.
(29777)
Minister of Police Statement to National Party Conference
84. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Justice: Has he acted on
the desire expressed in the New Zealand Herald of 25 July of Mr J. A. Wicks, S. M., the
chairman of the Magistrates Executive, to be provided with the full text of the address to the
National Party Conference by the Minister of Police, in which the Minister criticised
sentences imposed by magistrates, and will he ensure that any comments Mr Wicks makes to
him will be given equal publicity to that received by his colleague's criticisms?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: The comments of the Minister of
Police and the responses of the learned magistrate have both received wide publicity. I have
reminded my colleague of the provision this Government made in 1969 by way of amend-
ment to the Summary Proceedings Act 1957 which enabled the prosecution to appeal against
a sentence imposed in the magistrate's court. That is as far as I propose to take the matter.
(29/7/77)
Motor Cycle Gangs and Overstayers
85. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Prime Minister: Will he provide
specific examples of the manner in which the Ministers concerned had "not shirked their
tasks" (New Zealand Herald of 25 July), as he claimed to the National Party conference, in
dealing with motor cycle gangs and overstayers?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) replied: As to overstayers, the Minister of
Immigration as early as February 1976 said, "No Government can afford to let a situation
develop in which its immigration requirements are being disregarded." This was clearly the
position at the time of the change of Government, and it was necessary for the National
Government to deal with a situation that had been allowed to develop for some considerable
time, in which those who flouted the law were placed at an advantage over their fellows who
obeyed the law and returned home at the expiry of visitor permits. As to motor cycle gangs,
contrary to the practice of the Labour Government the National Government has given full
support to the police, and has amended the Criminal Justice Act, the Police Offences Act,
and the Arms Act, to enable the police to search gang members suspected of carrying


## p. 2243 (#699) ###########################################

17 August
2243
Questions and Replies
weapons, to enter gang houses in certain conditions, and the courts to confiscate motor
vehicles, a course of action that was promised by the Labour Party in the 1972 election but
never carried out. At the same time financial support has been provided for social workers
working with gangs, and other assistance has been given to assist in bringing them back into
the mainstream of society.
(2/8/77)
Railways-Auckland-Waitakere Line
86. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Railways: In view of his
reported statement regarding the condition of the Railways' suburban passenger service,
when he said, "Stage I of the programme has an assessed cost of $44 million which will be
spread over 4 years. This will cover the replacement of carriages on the Wellington
commuter lines and on the Auckland-Papakura line. Decisions have yet to be made about
the future of the Auckland-Waitakere line", can he advise when a decision will be made on
the future of the Auckland-Waitakere line and why a delay is being experienced at present?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Railways) replied: No I cannot predict when a
decision will be made. The future of passenger services by road or rail is the subject of
continuing discussion between a number of Government departments and the Auckland
Regional Authority to ensure that the most appropriate mode is developed to suit the needs
of the area.
(2/8/77)
Teachers-Marriage Allowance for Females
87. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Education: Is he aware that there is
still considerable discontent among married female teachers because of their inability to
claim the marriage allowance payment payable to male teachers?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: I am aware that under the current
provisions, many female teachers are ineligible for married salary. This issue is one of a
package of issues still under negotiation between the Combined State Services Organisation
and the State Services Co-ordinating Committee. I am unable to forecast the outcome of the
negotiations.
(2/8/77)
Estate and Gift Duty Receipts
88. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department:
Could he advise the receipts from estate and gift duty separately, for the years ended 31
March 1974, 31 March 1975, 31 March 1976, and 31 March 1977, (a) in dollar terms, and (b)
as a percentage variation on the previous year?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department)
replied: The amount of estate and gift duty received for the respective years was as follows:
for estate duty, for the March year 1974, $31 million, or a percentage increase of 16.1
percent; for the March year 1975, $38.4 million, or an increase of 23.8 percent; for the March
year 1976, $50.5 million, or an increase of 31.5 percent; and for the March year 1977, $51.7
million, or an increase of 2.8 percent. For gift duty, the figures are as follows: for the March
year 1974, $2.8 million, or a percentage increase of 51.3 percent; for the March year 1975,
$2.75 million, or a decrease of 1.89 percent; for the March year 1976, $3.64 million, or an
increase of 32.47 percent; and for the March year 1977, $2.99 million, or a decrease of 17.58
percent.
(2/8/77)
Woollen Mills at Mosgiel and Ashburton
89. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Can he confirm that
the remarks of the managing director of Kaiapoi Textiles Ltd, in the Christchurch Press of 10
June, in which he is reported as saying that Mosgiel's decision to close the woollen mill and
the reduction in the mill's viability were partly attributable to the costs of fuel and transport
under this Government are correct, and can he also confirm that the difficulties being
experienced by the Ashburton woollen mill, now employing more than 300 people, are also
due to the doubling of transport charges under this Government?


## p. 2244 (#700) ###########################################

2244
17 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: I have seen
the newspaper report, and have noted the remarks attributed to the managing director of
Mosgiel Ltd. They certainly do not suggest that fuel and transport cost increases contributed
to the company's decision to phase out operations at the Kaiapoi mill. I can find no
justification for the conclusions drawn by the honourable member. The age of the boilers
and the relatively small scale of present operations may have made fuel costs more
burdensome at Kaiapoi than at the company's other mills. Transport costs borne by the
Kaiapoi mill undoubtedly reflect the distance of that plant both from the Dunedin mills and
the major markets. Mosgiel Ltd had actually stated that even a direct freight subsidy would
not significantly assist Kaiapoi. Lane, Walker, Rudkin Ltd, the owner of the Ashburton mill,
has, to my knowledge, not cited transport costs as a factor in its decision to withdraw from
woollen milling. In fact, the Asburton mill made a good profit in its most recent trading year.
(2/8/77)
Irrigation Schemes
90. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Works and Development: How
many major irrigation schemes are in existence in New Zealand, how many schemes have
been completed since the election of the present Government, and how many schemes have
been planned and remain in the pipeline awaiting approval?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: There are 24 major
irrigation schemes completed and in operation over an area of 103 740 hectares, and these
are all in Otago and Canterbury. They were established from the 1930s through to the late
1960s. With the approval by the present Government of the large Waiau Plains and
Maniototo irrigation projects, there will be 10 new irrigation schemes under construction this
year, and these have a total estimated cost of $27.7 million. They will irrigate a further
59 790 hectares. Maniototo and Waiau Plains represent 45 percent of this total area.
Although not yet completed, many of the schemes under construction are supplying water to
some of their area. A further 11 irrigation scheme proposals covering an area of 18 760
hectares are at various stages of the design and approval process. A further 21 potential
irrigation schemes are at early stages of investigation.
(2/8/77)
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee Report
91. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: In view of the
importance of the findings of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee, would he
be prepared to move that the report be referred to a select committee?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: No. Interested organisations
and individuals had the opportunity of making submissions to the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee during the course of its inquiry.
(2/8/77)
Foreign Fishing Vessel Entry Tax
92. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Customs: On how many
occasions since its inception has the foreign fishing vessel tax been imposed?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied: The foreign fishing vessel entry
tax was introduced on 1 September 1976. During the period 1 September 1976 to 30 June
1977 there were 656 foreign fishing vessel arrivals in New Zealand ports, 41 of which were
exempted from the tax because the arrivals were due solely to reasons of emergency. Thus,
the tax has been collected on 615 occasions.
(2/8/77)
Car Pooling Schemes
93. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Finance: Will the support
of $70,000 to be made available for a car pooling scheme to operate across the Auckland
Harbour Bridge also be available for similar schemes developed by other local bodies
elsewhere?


## p. 2245 (#701) ###########################################

17 August
2245
Questions and Replies
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance) replied: The question of financial
support for car pooling schemes must be seen in the context of the budgeted level of
Government assistance for urban transport. It is anticipated that in the future the urban
transport authorities that are to be set up will initiate and co-ordinate car pooling schemes as
part of their overall responsibility for urban transport. Government assistance for the urban
transport authority is to be channelled through the Urban Transport Council, and will be
disbursed on the basis of approved comprehensive transport plans. Centres without urban
transport authorities will be eligible for project aid from the Urban Transport Council. Until
the new arrangements for urban transport have been established, the approach adopted by
the Government towards schemes developed by other local bodies will depend on the
progress of the North Shore to Auckland scheme and on the merit of the individual
proposals put forward.
(2/8/77)
Pentachlorophenyl Poisoning
94. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Labour: Has he seen the
illustrated article in the July 1977 issue of Contractor indicating that a chemical applicator's
employee who contracted pentachlorophenyl poisoning in the line of duty was not entitled to
accident compensation, and will he take action to rectify the situation?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Yes, I have seen the article. The
position is different from what is implied in the article. The fact is that a claim was lodged on
22 June 1977 alleging that the poisoning had first been sustained on 21 March 1977. It was
the first case of its kind received by the commission and required detailed medical
investigation. Following that the commission accepted the claim on 18 July 1977. Compensa-
tion payments were then commenced, backdated to the time of infection. It is to be regretted
that there has been no later publicity to correct the implications made in the article of a July
publication. I must point out that the Accident Compensation Commission effectively
handled a precedent-setting case in less than 1 month.
(2/8/77)
Miller's Ltd, Christchurch-Sackings
95. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Has he seen the
report in the Christchurch Star of 29 June 1977 in which Miller's Ltd blamed the mass
sackings of clothing workers in its Christchurch factory on clothing export quotas negotiated
with the Australians by this Government; and, if so, can he clarify what he meant by the
claim that Miller's had nobody to blame but itself for having to sack 100 workers?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: I have seen
the report of Miller's Ltd in the Christchurch Star of 29 June 1977, and I have also seen the
report of 29 June, in which I was misquoted in the way the honourable member has
suggested. I put out a press statement at that time to make my position clear. The NAFTA
arrangement on apparel has assured New Zealand manufacturers of the opportunity to send
at least 4 000 000 garments to the Australian market this quota year. It has minimised the
disruptive effect of the restrictions Australia found itself obliged to impose. Obviously the
ceiling that was set on New Zealand exports will, however, have affected different
companies in different ways, depending on how they had geared up in the expectation of
further expansion in their sales to Australia.
(2/8/77)
Railways-Prosecutions for Theft
96. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Railways: Were any prosecu-
tions for theft commenced by the Railways Department in the period 1 April 1976 to 31
March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied on behalf of the Minister of Railways: The
Railways Department does not institute proceedings for prosecution for theft. Where cases
of theft are suspected the police are called in and are given the necessary information by the
department. The police decide, having regard to their own inquiries, whether to prosecute or
not.
(2/8/77)


## p. 2246 (#702) ###########################################

2246
17 August
Questions and Replies
Meat-freezing Industry-Hygiene Expenditure Assistance
97. Mr BRUCE BARCLAY (Christchurch Central) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Will
the recently announced assistance to the meat-freezing industry for approved hygiene
expenditure include assistance to either fully or partially foreign-owned freezing companies?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands) replied on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture:
His answer is yes.
(2/8/77)
Post Office Home Ownership Accounts
98. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Housing: How many home
ownership accounts were in operation throughout New Zealand at the end of the 1977
financial year, and, of these, how many new accounts have been opened at the Post Office
since 1 January 1977?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: At the end of the 1977 financial
year, 14 002 home ownership savings accounts were in operation throughout New Zealand,
of which 7532 were with the Post Office; 12 652 were ordinary accounts, and 1350 were
special accounts. In the period 1 January 1977 to 31 March 1977, 835 Post Office home
ownership savings accounts were opened; 305 were ordinary accounts, and 530 were special
accounts. More up-to-date figures are not yet available from the Post Office
(2/8/77)
Penalties for Lawbreakers
99. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Justice: Is there any
substance to the claim made by the Minister of Police in a recent speech to the Wellington
Women's Club that ex-prisoners reoffend in order to return to prison to take an “annual
holiday", and, if so, has the Government any plans to respond to the Minister's call for more
severe penalties to be imposed on people who break the law?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: It is probably true that a few "old
lags" have become so institutionalised that prison has become home to them. I am not
convinced that this state of mind is widespread or that increased penalties is the answer to it.
The experience of prison administrators is that most inmates are only too happy to be
released. The more general question of the adequacy of maximum penalties is being studied.
(2/8/77)
Drug Law Enforcement Courses
100. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Customs: How many drug law
enforcement courses were conducted by his department during the year ended 31 March
1977?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied: My department's training
curriculum does not include courses devoted solely to drug law enforcement. However, all
formal training courses conducted by the Customs central training school—that is, some 53
in the year ended 31 March 1977-include sessions on narcotic identification, detection, and
current trends in importation and use. This system of education has been found to be the
most effective in teaching and updating the knowledge of the many officers likely to
encounter narcotics in the normal course of their work. The needs of the smaller number of
officers requiring more in-depth knowledge of narcotics legislation and investigation tech-
niques are catered for on courses organised and run by the Police Department. Co-operation
between Police and Customs in these courses is excellent, and Customs staff play a full role
in providing both course members and instructors.
(3/8/77)
Electors-Proof of Identity
101. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Justice: Is he aware
that President Carter has stated his intention of legislating for electors to be able to vote on
election day on reasonable proof of identity, even though not enrolled, and that several
states in the United States already have such a system which works successfully, and, if so,
will he draw this to the attention of the Chief Electoral Officer and ask for a report on
measures to facilitate the exercise by New Zealanders of the democratic right and duty to
vote on election day?


## p. 2247 (#703) ###########################################

17 August
2247
Questions and Replies
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: Every state in the United States
has its own electoral law, and there is no one law for the United States of America. I have no
details of the proposal the honourable member referred to. New Zealanders already have
the democratic right and responsibility to enrol as registered electors, and it is on this basis
that they are eligible to vote. However, I shall watch with interest any development in the
United States.
(3/8/77)
Custody Orders-Fathers' Rights
102. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Justice: Has he seen the
Department of Justice statistics 1976 for domestic proceedings, which indicate that a total of
2397 custody orders were made, including custody orders to the mother in 2150 cases, and
does the Government propose any steps to overcome the inequality of fathers in such
situations?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: I have seen the figures referred to.
The honourable member will know that the existing law, as set out in the Guardianship Act
1968, focuses on the welfare of the child and does not discriminate against fathers. In many
cases, custody will be sought by the mother and not seriously opposed by the father. In other
cases the father will be unable to convince the court that he can make satisfactory
arrangements for the day-to-day care of the child while he goes out to work. The courts must
retain a discretion to act in what they see as the child's best interests, but it may be possible
to improve the practical application of the law in relation to fathers. This is currently being
studied in connection with the review of the law on matrimonial proceedings.
(3/8/77)
Factories-Assistance with Financial Problems
103. Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert), on behalf of Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin
Central), asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: Is there any co-operation between his
department and the department of Labour to ensure that assistance is available to factories
with financial troubles immediately difficulties present themselves?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: When
consultation is initiated by companies at an appropriately early stage, my department co-
operates with agencies which may be able to help to resolve financial difficulties faced by
New Zealand manufacturers. If these difficulties cannot be satisfactorily resolved, then the
Department of Labour co-operates by assisting with the placement of any employees
needing alternative employment.
(3/8/77)
LPG Plant in Taranaki
104. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth) asked the Minister of Energy Resources: Can
he confirm that the Government is investigating the possibility of establishing an LPG plant
in Taranaki, and, if this is so, can he indicate when this study will be completed?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources) replied: There is no proposal that the
Government itself establish such a plant. However, the Government has evaluated proposals
put forward by Maui Development Ltd, in which the Government is a 50 percent share-
holder through Off-Shore Mining Ltd, involving the establishment of an LPG production
plant at Oaonui, where the on-shore processing facilities for Maui gas are located. I wrote to
the company last week setting out the Government's views, which are that Maui LPG could
usefully be extracted to supply a wide range of markets throughout the country as quickly as
possible.
(3/8/77)
Coastal Trader-Freight Charges
105. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he give the dates and
details of the increases made in the Coastal Trader's freight charges since December 1975,
and can he also indicate how the new transport pricing policy announced in the Budget will
affect the Coastal Trader's freight charges?


## p. 2248 (#704) ###########################################

2248
17 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: The following freight rate
increases have been applied to the Coastal Trader service by the Shipping Corporation: on 12
February 1976, 30 percent on southbound cargo, and 26 percent on northbound cargo; on 14
July 1976, 35 percent on southbound cargo, and 29 percent on northbound cargo. On 1 July
1977, following a complete restructuring of the existing tariff, based on historical cargo
movements, the calculated increase in scheduled freight rates was a weighted average of
approximately 11 percent. On the question of the differential freight rates referred to in the
Budget, the Shipping Corporation began operating such a system for the Coastal Trader in
February 1976. The extent of any change in the present differential will be governed to a
large degree by any future movement in rail freight rates with which the corporation
maintains a relative competitive position.
(3/8/77)
Totalisators-Statistics
106. Mr FRIEDLANDER (New Plymouth), on behalf of Miss DEWE (Lyttelton), asked
the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department: What total sum was put through
the totalisators of New Zealand for the year ended 31 March 1977 from which the Inland
Revenue Department collected $29,948,813 in racing duty?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue Department)
replied: The total amount of totalisator turnover on which racing duty was paid for the year
ended 31 March 1977 was $349.3 million.
(3/8/77)
Freight Rates
107. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he
elaborate on the recently announced changes in transport pricing policy to allow freight rates
to reflect actual costs to a greater extent, and can he state clearly how and over what period
this new policy will be implemented?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: The proposed restructuring
of inter-island freight rates has been designed not only to assist South Island manufacturers
but also to apportion the costs of freight services more equitably. As the predominant flow of
goods is at present from north to south, greater capacity and hence greater capital
expenditure must be provided to cope with this southbound traffic. The net result would be a
differential between northbound and southbound rates. Discussions have been initiated with
the Railways Department and the Shipping Corporation, who have agreed to implement
such a differential in their next review of freight rates.
(3/8/77)
State House Tenancies-Rent Outstanding
108. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Housing: What is the
outstanding amount of rental due to the Housing Corporation from State house tenancies as
at 31 March 1977, and are any steps being taken to improve the arrears situation?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing) replied: Outstanding rental due to the
Housing Corporation from State house tenancies as at 31 March 1977 was $691,441. This
amount was owed by 3735 tenants, and represents 6.57 percent of the 56 000 tenancies
administered by the corporation. This favourably compares with the position as at 31 March
1976, when 4476 tenants out of a total of 55 005 owed $731,198, representing a percentage of
8.14. The corporation is adopting a firmer line with defaulting tenants, which is reflected in
the improved arrears position. The corporation's housing officers, who are in direct contact
with tenants, have played an active part in arrears collections. Where co-operation cannot be
obtained from the tenants, legal action is being taken through the courts, and in some serious
arrears cases possession of the properties has been obtained.
(3/8/77)
Broadcasting of Midweek Races-Survey
109. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Was
the listening survey which led to the reduction of midweek racing broadcasts confined to
residential listening or did it also include radio listening by groups in offices and factories?


## p. 2249 (#705) ###########################################

17 August
2249
Questions and Replies
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied: I am informed by the
Broadcasting Corporation of New Zealand that the survey referred to by the honourable
member was not confined to residential listening. Forms were distributed to residential
dwellings, but the appropriate number were left with respondents for 7 days before
collection, so that all members of the household could record their views. I understand that a
high proportion of the forms were completed on a household basis and in terms of the
national average for age groups. Therefore, the forms returned could be said to be fairly
representative.
(3/8/77)
Telephone Semi-automatic Exchange, Ruatoria
110. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Postmaster-General: Can he advise when the
proposed semi-automatic exchange for Ruatoria is likely to be in operation?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: It is proposed to replace the
present exchange with a better type of manual exchange about mid-1978. Subscribers'
telephones will be changed to a modern automatic type.
(3/8/77)
Manufactured Exports Using Indigenous Raw Materials
111. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Overseas Trade: What volume and
value of manufactured exports used indigenous raw materials as their main components in
the last recorded year and the 3 previous years?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Overseas Trade: "No product by product analysis has been made of the
proportion of indigenous raw materials used in manufactured exports. However, I shall be
happy to make available to the honourable member a table showing selected groups which
by their nature use indigenous raw materials as their main component. One of the problems
is that some major export products, such as meat, wool, and dairy products, which do have
an element of manufacture, are not recorded in the statistics, so it is difficult to give the exact
information to the honourable member."
(3/8/77)
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd
112. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Does the
Government propose to take any action to prevent the largely farmer-owned company,
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd, with works at Seadown and Ravensbourne, being taken over by
Kempthorne Prosser Ltd and thus ensure that a monopoly situation is not created for basic
fertiliser supplies to farmers in the area between Otago and Taranaki?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands) replied on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture:
"I understand that the examiner of trade practices has examined the proposed takeover of
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd by Kempthorne Prosser Ltd and has reported that in his opinion the
proposal does not infringe the provisions of the Commerce Act 1975. Accordingly, there are
no grounds on which the Government could take action in this case."
(3/8/77)
Education Student Bursaries
113. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Education: What has been
the increased payment in bursaries to students since 1 February 1976?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: School boarding bursaries were
increased from $300 to $400 per annum from the beginning of term three 1976 and will be
further increased to $500 per annum from the beginning of term three this year. The total
payments for this form of assistance in recent financial years were, 1975-76, $840,000,
1976-77, $899,000, and in 1977-78, $1.36 million. Tertiary bursaries were increased substan-
tially with the introduction of the standard tertiary bursary at the beginning of 1976, and set
at an unabated rate of $24 a week. The Government has approved an increase of $2 a week
in all rates from the beginning of the 1978 academic year. Total tertiary bursary payments
per annum over this period are as follows: 1975-76, $13.7 million; 1976-77, $24.6 million;
1977-78, $25.9 million. In effect, therefore, this represents an increase of 88 percent in total
Government expenditure on bursaries in the last 2 years.
(3/8/77)


## p. 2250 (#706) ###########################################

2250
17 August
Questions and Replies
Education-Standard Tertiary Bursaries
114. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Can he explain how
he arrived at the figure of $2 per week for the increase in the standard tertiary bursary and if
any weightings were used, in view of the fact that hostel fees for 1978 in Dunedin are to rise
to $38 per week?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The member will be aware that it is
the Government's policy to reform the tertiary bursary. It had a number of options available
to it to improve bursary conditions arising from the bursary conference held in December
1976. The decision was taken to increase the basic rate of the bursary, so that some benefit
would accrue to all students rather than to make significant improvements in more
specialised areas. No weightings were used, but I point out to the member that the $2 per
week represents an increase of 8 percent on the unabated bursary and 15.4 percent on the
abated bursary.
(4/8/77)
Massey and Ranui Primary Schools
115. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Education: What relief is
planned for the overcrowded primary schools in the Massey and Ranui areas?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: A new intermediate school is
planned at Massey, and new primary schools are planned at Colwill Road and Don Buck
Road to bring relief to primary schools in the Massey area. A new primary school is to be
constructed at Glen Road to relieve the Ranui Primary School.
(4/8/77)
Immigrants from South Africa and Japan
116. Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) asked the Minister of Immigration: Could he confirm that
the Government is considering expanding recruitment of immigrants to New Zealand and
that South Africa and Japan would become primary areas for such recruitment, as reported
in the Evening Post on 27 July 1977?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Immigration) replied: The Government is not considering
expanding the recruitment of immigrants, and there is no intention that South Africa or
Japan will become primary sources of immigrants.
(4/8/77)
Regional Resources Surveys
117. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Regional Development:
Can he give the expected date for the completion of the regional resources surveys that were
promised 20 months ago in the National Party's election manifesto, but which he was still
calling for the completion of in May this year, and can he give his assurance that when the
findings of these resources surveys come to hand he will make the findings public?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Regional Development) replied: Of the 11 regional
development councils, 3 have already completed surveys of the resources and basic develop-
ment potential of their regions. Of the remaining councils, all are actively working on
surveys of this type, and these can be expected to come to hand over the next few months.
The member for Dunedin Central may be assured that he can freely obtain and use the
information contained in any regional resource survey as it comes to hand, as many hundreds
of people active in regional development have already used those surveys so far published.
(4/8/77)
Auckland Museum of Transport and Technology-Relief Workers
118. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Labour: Are any special
relief workers being employed at the Western Springs Museum of Transport and Technol-
ogy, and, if so, what type of work is being undertaken by them?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: As at 29 July 1977, 113 workers were
employed at the Museum of Transport and Technology, Western Springs, Auckland, under
the special work scheme. Generally, these workers are clearing the grounds for future


## p. 2251 (#707) ###########################################

17 August
2251
Questions and Replies
displays. One particular job, preparatory work for a tram track, is a special project being
undertaken by a trust group which aims at rehabilitating young people with unstable work
histories; 32 young men and 4 young women were engaged on this special project. The
Government recognises the value of this and other similar groups throughout the country,
and I recently announced an extension of the special work scheme to encourage local
authorities and community organisations to provide productive work for these work rehabili-
tation groups.
(4/8/77)
National Superannuation-Hospital Patients
119. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is any reduction
made to those on national superannuation who have been patients in hospital for 6 months
or more, and, if so, what is the reduction?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister of Social Welfare: There is no reduction in national superannuation because of
hospitalisation unless the patient is unmarried and has no dependants. In those cases where a
reduction is applied, the provisions of section 75 (2) of the Social Security Act provide for a
reduction after 13 weeks in a public hospital. The amount of national superannuation which
would be paid in these circumstances depends on the individual situation of each case, taking
into account the superannuitant's income, family responsibilities, and capacity to appreciate
the payments.
(4/8/77)
Sheep Returns-Statistics for East Coast
120. Mr BELL (Gisborne) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Has he seen table C on page
8 of the report on sheep returns as at 30 June 1976, in which sheep population in the East
Coast region is quoted at 2 544 882 head, and, if so, can he advise the comparable numbers
as at 30 June 1974 and 30 June 1975 and express the variations as a percentage of each
preceding year?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Lands) replied on behalf of the Minister of Agriculture:
The sheep population in the East Coast region decreased by 2.4 percent in 1975, but
recovered markedly in 1976, and, at 2 544 882, was up by 4.3 percent on the 1975 total and
was 1.8 percent higher than the total in 1974. The statistical details are: in 1974, 2 500 521; in
1975, 2 439 471, or a decrease of 2.4 percent; and in 1976, 2 544 882, an increase of 4.3
percent on 1975 and 1.8 percent on 1974.
(4/8/77)
Family Affairs Cabinet Committee
121. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Does the Cabinet
Committee on Family Affairs have a watching brief on the censorship functions or duties of
such bodies as the Indecent Publications Tribunal, the Supreme Court, and the Department
of Education, and, if so, what are the committee's responsibilities?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied, on behalf of the Minister of Social
Welfare: The Cabinet committee does not see itself as having a watching brief on the
censorship functions or duties of such bodies as those mentioned by the honourable member.
It does, however, see itself as having a watching brief over legislation affecting the quality of
family life. It also has a responsibility, when the public expresses deep concern about a
matter, to look carefully at that matter in order to ascertain whether any measures are
required to safeguard the interests of family life. If the committee concludes that there are
deficiencies in the law, it will make proposals for change.
(4/8/77)
State Insurance Office-Prosecutions for Theft
122. Mr FENTON (Hastings), on behalf of Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata), asked the
Minister in Charge of the State Insurance Office: Were any prosecutions commenced by the
State Insurance Office for theft in the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March 1977, and, if so, how
successful were they?


## p. 2252 (#708) ###########################################

2252
17 August
Questions and Replies
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied on behalf of
the Minister in Charge of the State Insurance Office: In the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March
1977 one prosecution for theft by an employee was commenced by the State Insurance
Office. The amount involved was $6,500, of which $2,000 was recovered. The offender was
dismissed from his employment and received a 9 months' prison sentence.
(4/8/77)
Waitemata Electric Power Board-Consumer Difficulties
123. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Electricity: Has he any information
which reflects the difficulties that face electricity users, particularly household consumers in
the Waitemata Electric Power Board's area?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Electricity) replied: There is little that can be added to the
reply I gave to the honourable member on the same subject on 23 June. The Waitemata
Electric Power Board has had no increase in the number of disconnections for non-payment
of accounts. Because the board was concerned at the possible effect of the increases on the 2-
monthly bills for domestic consumers, members of the Waitemata Electric Power Board
have called for a report on the cost of monthly billing using an assessed consumption for
intermediate accounts. It is thought that monthly accounts could assist families with
budgeting. That report is likely to be considered at the next meeting of the Waitemata
Electric Power Board.
(4/8/77)
Health Department-Staff Changes at Wiri Office
124. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Health: What staffing changes
have been authorised at the Wiri district office in the past 12 months, in view of the rapidly
growing population of South Auckland?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The following positions have been
established in the South Auckland district over the last 12 months, and I will also give the
current position. The position for a deputy medical officer of health has been filled; for a
supervising public health nurse the position is under advertisement; for nine public health
nurses-four have been filled and the remainder are under advertisement; for two health
assistants, one is filled and the remaining position is under advertisement; for a health
inspector the position has been filled, for a health education officer the position has been
filled, and for an assistant advisory officer, the position has been filled.
(4/8/77)
Bookmaking
125. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Justice: Does he intend
to take any action on the comments of Mr D. J. Sullivan, S.M., reported in the Dominion of
29 July, that "the foundations of society would not be shattered" if the offence of
bookmaking was "decriminalised" and particularly if the mandatory penalty of imprison-
ment for a second conviction were abolished?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): Although the question asked by the
honourable member is more properly one for my colleague the Minister of Internal Affairs, I
should at least point out that the magistrate's remarks referred not to the offence of
bookmaking, but to the offences of participating in an unlawful game of chance. The
Government is soon to introduce a Gaming Bill, and when that is prepared I am certain that
the Minister of Internal Affairs will cover the general point raised in the question.
(4/8/77)
Transport Department-Prosecutions for Theft
126. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Transport: Were any
prosecutions commenced by the Ministry of Transport for theft in the period 1 April 1976 to
31 March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: I am informed that there
were 13 thefts of stores and cash from the Ministry of Transport during the 1976-77 year. In
line with customary practice, these cases were handed over to the police to enable inquiries


## p. 2253 (#709) ###########################################

17 August
2253
Questions and Replies
to be made. Of the 13 thefts, successful prosecutions have been taken in 2 cases. In the
remaining cases inquiries are either continuing, or have failed to locate the offender or the
missing property.
(4/8/77)
Chiropody Benefit
127. Mr HUNT (New Lynn), on behalf of Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay), asked the Minister
of Health: Can he confirm that the Department of Health is working on the Government's
election promise to introduce a benefit scheme for free chiropody for the elderly, and, if so,
is it intended to make the scheme hospital-based?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: I can confirm that in the near future it is
intended to introduce some form of chiropody service supported by Government finance.
This was announced in my Budget speech last night. The form it will take and who will
qualify have yet to be determined, but the matter will first have to be discussed with
representatives of the chiropodists.
(4/8/77)
Otago Education Board-Transport Costs
128. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Education: What was the total
cost of providing transport and conveyance in the Otago Education Board area for the year
ended 31 January 1977?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The total cost of providing
transport and conveyance in the Otago Education Board area for the year ended 31 January
1977 was $670,000.
(4/8/77)
Tourist Accommodation in Auckland and Christchurch
129. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Tourism: What steps has he taken to
alleviate the accommodation shortage in Auckland, and what plans are being made by him
to provide enough tourists to satisfy the oversupply of accommodation in Christchurch?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism) replied: The need for additional hotel
rooms in Auckland is recognised. Some projects are currently being planned, and some may
require Government assistance. Acceptable projects will receive sympathetic consideration
in terms of the tourist accommodation development scheme. Leading Christchurch hotels
did experience a reduction in occupancy from 72.4 percent in 1974-75 to 66.6 percent in
1975-76 largely due to an increase from 753 to 1131 rooms. Such a large increase in available
rooms will take some time to be absorbed by increased demand. Christchurch is a main point
of visitor entry, and must, therefore, benefit from the additional promotional activity that
the Tourist and Publicity Department, international airlines, and tour operators are under-
taking.
(4/8/77)
Marriage Guidance Councils
130. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Justice: What increased grants
does he propose to make to the work of marriage guidance councils in view of the findings
and recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: Although the annual grant to the
National Marriage Guidance Council has been increased substantially again this year, there
has been no increase on the basis of the recommendations of the Domestic Purposes Benefit
Review Committee. Total Government funding of the National Marriage Guidance Council
was $219,000 for the year 1976-77, and for the year 1977-78 this has been increased to
$290,000. The additional grant is to cover some extension work, and to provide for
additional training courses for marriage counsellors.
(4/8/77)


## p. 2254 (#710) ###########################################

2254
17 August
Questions and Replies
Rural Water Supply Schemes
131. Mr COOPER (Otago Central) asked the Minister of Works and Development: How
many rural water supply schemes are in existence in New Zealand; how many schemes have
been completed since the election of the present Government; and how many schemes have
been planned and remain in the pipeline awaiting approval?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: There are 31 rural
water supply schemes that have been completed with Government assistance since the late
1940s. Most of these schemes are in Otago and Canterbury. Three schemes have been
completed since the present Government took office, and a further 34 schemes are under
construction. Many of these are already supplying water to farms and they are well spread
throughout New Zealand. Eight new rural water supply schemes have been approved during
the term of the present Government, and a further 11 are programmed for approval and
commencement this financial year. Of the 11, 7 are in Otago and Southland. A further 49
proposed schemes are at various stages of planning and investigation, and 11 of these are in
Otago and Southland.
(4/8/77)
Air Services-Los Angeles to London
132. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: What measures are being taken to renew the Los Angeles to London service using
Air New Zealand aircraft on charter to British Airways?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meterorological Services)
replied: The British Airways lease of Air New Zealand DC10 aircraft does not expire until
April 1979. A possible renewal of the lease is a commercial matter to be dealt with by the
two airlines themselves in due course.
(5/8/77)
Maori Affairs Prosecutions for Theft
133. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Maori Affairs: Were any
prosecutions commenced by the Department of Maori Affairs for theft in the period 1 April
1976 to 31 March 1977, and, if so, how successful were they?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Maori Affairs) replied: Two prosecutions for theft were
initiated by the department in the period 1 April 1976 to 31 March 1977. Both offenders were
convicted and restitution was ordered. Full recovery has been made by the department in
one case and legal action for recovery is being taken in the other.
(5/8/77)
Education-Shortage of Relieving Teachers
134. MR MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Education: Does he have any
plans to meet the growing problem of shortage of relief teachers?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education) replied: The problem of finding sufficient
relieving teachers at this time of the year is not new. It occurs each year in the winter term as
colds and influenza take their toll of the teaching force. My department is in regular
consultation with the education boards and is holding discussions with the teachers'
organisation to find ways of minimising the problem.
(5/8/77)
Ridge Road, Paremoremo-Rubbish Tip
135. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Finance: In view of the fact
that the Town and Country Planning Appeal Board has turned down the Takapuna City
Council's plan to build a rubbish tip at Ridge Road, Paremoremo, can he assure the
residents of the area that the Local Authorities Loans Board's approval for such a scheme,
involving $1.2 million, can no longer proceed?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Acting Minister of Finance) replied: As far as I can see this is
not a matter on which the Minister of Finance can give an assurance. That is more properly
for the local body concerned. The facts are that the loan for $1.2 million was approved in
1975 for the purchase of land for general, civic, and community purposes. Although the land


## p. 2255 (#711) ###########################################

17 August
2255
Questions and Replies
was required primarily for refuse disposal, the council indicated that if it was not used for
that purpose it would still be required for recreation and reserve purposes. The key point
which the member might wish to note is that the condition attached to the loan prevented its
use for refuse disposal until the Auckland Regional Authority's plans for such purposes are
approved.
(5/8/77)
Television Programmes Overlapping
136. Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked the Minister of Broadcasting: Does he realise that two
excellent Sunday night programmes on TV1 and TV2-the "Father Brown" series and "The
Glittering Prizes"-overlap by only about 15 minutes, and, in view of the undoubted
popularity of both programmes, would it not be possible to resolve the clash before next
Sunday?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied: I am delighted that the
member enjoys both programmes. I am advised by the Broadcasting Corporation that ways
of effecting a junction point for the two programmes have been carefully considered but
have not proved practicable. The reason is the difficult scheduling problems associated with
the six-episode series of "The Glittering Prizes", which are not of the usual standard
durations.
(5/8/77)
Social Welfare Assistance for Elderly Former Psychiatric Patients
137. Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What financial
assistance is his department prepared to make to elderly patients with limited assets, who,
following treatment in psychiatric hospital, are ready for discharge but require further care
in rest homes?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: It is regretted that such
payments were rejected by the Labour Government when submissions were made to them in
1973-74 and 1974-75. However, the question of financial assistance for patients transferred
from psychiatric hospitals to rest homes is currently under examination by the National
Government. Until this examination is finalised I am not in a position to make any further
comment.
(5/8/77)
Chateau Commodore and Air New Zealand
138. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Can he confirm that Air New Zealand has been involved in negotiations concerning
the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: Air New Zealand has not been involved in negotiations involving the Chateau
Commodore in Christchurch, and has no interest in the purchase of this hotel.
(5/8/77)
Import Deposit Scheme
139. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Customs: What reduction
in imports does the Government estimate to have occurred as a direct result of the import
deposit scheme in its first year in operation, and what further saving does it anticipate will
occur in the 6 months commencing 2 August 1977?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied: It is impossible to estimate
precisely the extent to which imports have been reduced as a result of the scheme, as this is
dependent on the action of a considerable number of importers. It should also be borne in
mind that some goods were exempted from the scheme on 30 July 1976. However, in the first
year of the scheme's operation, imports of those goods which were still subject to the scheme
as at 1 February 1977 were $117 million, representing a reduction of 2 percent over the
similar 1976 year, whereas, total private imports for the same period increased by 30.3
percent to $3,098.1 million for the year ended January 1977. Imports of goods covered by the
scheme have shown an upward trend in recent months, due in part to the ability of importers
to turn over deposits made on previous imports. It is expected that the scheme will continue


## p. 2256 (#712) ###########################################

2256
17 August
Questions and Replies
to be a restraining influence on ordering and stocking policies, but I am sure the House
appreciates that we cannot predict with any real accuracy what the volumes for the items
concerned will be for the next 6 months.
(5/8/77)
Australian Visitors Group Tour Costs
140. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Tourism: What steps has he taken to
hold group tour costs for Australians visiting New Zealand to a level that is competitive with
the more sought after destinations by Australians which include Indonesia, Singapore, and
Hawaii?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism) replied: I do not exercise control over the
pricing of coach tours offered in Australia by the various tour operators. However, the
general manager of the Tourist and Publicity Department called a meeting of leading tour
operators on 25 May, at which factors that could be contributing to the present fall in
patronage were considered. This included pricing, competition from other destinations,
trans-Tasman fare levels and sectors, and research and promotion. These aspects are
currently being explored and developed by the department. However, while there has been a
recent "softness" in the Australian market, this is under continuing study and New Zealand
is still the main holiday destination for Australians.
(5/8/77)
Commerce Act-Criteria for Capital Cost of Production
141. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt.
Albert), asked the Minister of Trade and Industry: What allowance for a contribution to the
capital cost of future production is permitted manufacturers under the criteria used for the
price control provisions of the Commerce Act?
Hon. L. R. ADAMS-SCHNEIDER (Minister of Trade and Industry) replied: No specific
allowance is normally permitted manufacturers for a contribution to capital cost of future
production in respect of goods under the Commerce Act.
(9/8/77)
Employment of Persons Previously on Special Assistance
142. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister of Labour: How many persons to
whom special assistance was given by way of subsidy to private employers last year are now
in permanent employment, and what was their age and sex?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour) replied: Last year, 178 workers were placed in
employment under the private sector subsidy scheme. The ages and sex of these workers
were: 16 years of age-17 males, 18 females; 17 years of age-20 males, 31 females; 18 years
of age-16 males, 20 females; 19 years of age-10 males, 5 females; 20 years of age-4
males, 5 females; 21 and over-29 males, 3 females; giving a total of 96 males and 82
females. I am not able to give the member details of the ages and sex of those workers
permanently retained when the scheme terminated. However, 71 workers were retained in
permanent employment when the scheme terminated. Three of these workers were in
apprenticeships, and this was very pleasing as it signified a long-term commitment to train
and employ in that job.
(9/8/77)
Fisheries Research Vessels-Industrial Dispute
143. Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked the Minister of Fisheries: Is there any truth in the
article in the Evening Post of 28 July 1977 alleging that one of the ways to solve the strike
involving the two fisheries research vessels is to sell them, and, if not, what measures is the
Government contemplating to resolve this long-standing dispute?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Acting Minister of Fisheries) replied: The suggestion that a way of
solving the strike would be to sell the vessels has never been seriously considered. In an
attempt to settle the current dispute, representatives of the State Services Commission and
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries will meet with the Seamen's Union shortly.
(9/8/77)


## p. 2257 (#713) ###########################################

17 August
2257
Questions and Replies
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 25
144. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he tell the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 25 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee, which states: "That urgent consideration be given to extending
to other districts the scheme being operated in Napier and Christchurch whereby voluntary
social workers are actively encouraged to assist in the department's work and that considera-
tion be given to placing the country-wide development of this scheme under the guidance
and supervision of an officer in head office specially appointed for this purpose?"
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Steps are at present being
taken to obtain approval for the establishment of a new senior staff position in my
department. The officer appointed will be responsible for promoting and advancing the
concept of the use of volunteers in social case work and other areas to serve the welfare
needs of people within the community in the 29 social welfare districts.
(9/8/77)
De Facto Relationships-Domestic Purposes Benefit
145. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is it correct, as stated in
chapter 5.3 of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee's report, that guidelines
have been laid down by the Social Security Commission for those district officers with the
delegated authority to determine whether or not a de facto relationship exists, and, if so,
how does he equate this finding with his answer to a written question from the member for
Raglan, given on 6 October 1976, that "It is not possible to set down such criteria. It is
necessary for the particular circumstances of each individual case and of each relationship to
be taken into account?"
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The guidelines referred to in
the report of the Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee are general procedural
instructions for the guidance of district officers. While they contain reference to particular
points concerning a relationship which should be known before a decision is reached, they do
not represent the specific criteria to be used in forming a judgment as to whether a de facto
relationship exists. As I said in reply to the earlier question asked of me by the member for
Raglan, it is not possible to set down specific criteria to cover all cases. The particular
circumstances of each individual case and of each relationship must be taken into account.
(9/8/77)
Nursing Graduates
146. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Health: Can he tell the House how
the number of graduate nurses recruited and trained in the technical colleges compares, as a
percentage, with those who are trained in the hospitals?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: In 1975, of the total number of 1169 nurses
granted registration, 46, or 3.94 percent, trained in technical institutes. In 1976, 1513 were
granted registration with 85, or 5.62 percent, from technical institutes. At 31 March 1977,
6252 student nurses were in training, and 465, or 7.44 percent, were in technical institutes.
(9/8/77)
International Flights to Auckland and Christchurch
147. Mr KIRK (Sydenham) asked the Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological
Services: Can he confirm that there are likely to be seven new international flights a week
into Auckland during the coming year, and, if so, has he considered rescheduling to
Christchurch some of the international flights arriving in Auckland?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services)
replied: Applications for increased services have not been received from the respective
airlines, but it is possible that there could be an extra seven flights a week into Auckland
during the next 12 months. It is largely the commercial judgment of the international airlines
which determines how many flights they will operate into airports they are licensed to serve.
At this stage, the demand for travel to and from Christchurch is insufficient to warrant extra
scheduled services.
(9/8/77)
23 Vol. 412


## p. 2258 (#714) ###########################################

2258
17 August
Questions and Replies
Personal Housing Loans Scheme
148. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: How many applica-
tions have been received to date under the personal housing loans scheme since its
introduction on 27 June, and how much money is involved in those applications?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: As at the close of business on 4
August, 136 applications to the value of $715,630 had been received for personal housing
loans under the scheme introduced on 27 June.
(9/8/77)
Transport Pricing Policy
149. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru) asked the Minister of Transport: Can he give an
assurance that the new transport pricing policy announced at the time of the Budget will not
mean that south-bound freight rates will increase by a substantial amount while north-bound
freight rates will increase by a smaller amount, or not at all?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: The new transport pricing
policy will mean that a minimum differential between north-bound and south-bound inter-
island freight rates will be introduced at the next freight rate review. The level of the
differential will depend on further analysis of the costs of the inter-island shipping
operators—namely, the Railways Department and the Shipping Corporation.
(9/8/77)
Medical Payments to General Practitioners
150. Mr BIRCH (Franklin) asked the Minister of Health: What is the average cost per
patient for a visit to a general practitioner, and how much of that cost is met by a
contribution from the State?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: Under the fee-for-service system applicable
in New Zealand the general practitioner is entitled to charge a fee that he considers is
appropriate to the time and skill in providing the service. Consequently, fees for consulta-
tions vary. The contribution by the State by way of general medical service benefits varies
from $1.25 to $7 a consultation, but averages out at $2.36. On an average gross fee of $5 the
State pays $2.36 and the patient pays $2.64.
(9/8/77)
Intellectually Handicapped Residential Homes
151. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Has he seen the
article in the Wanganui Herald of 2 July in which concern is expressed by the New Zealand
Society for the Intellectually Handicapped that capital assistance by the Government for
residential homes for the intellectually handicapped has been reduced, and, if so, can he
indicate what action he proposes to take to meet the society's objections?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Yes, I have seen the article
referred to, but I assure the honourable member that in no individual case will the capital
subsidy to the New Zealand Society for the Intellectually Handicapped be reduced.
(9/8/77)
Mortgagee Sales, Wellington
152. Mr BRILL (Kapiti) asked the Minister of Justice: Within the Wellington Supreme
Court district how many sales have actually been effected by the Registrar of the Supreme
Court at the request of a mortgagee in each of the past 4 years, and, during the same years,
how many applications for such sales have been lodged with the registrar?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice) replied: The actual number of mortgagee
sales effected by the Registrar of the Supreme Court at Wellington in each of the past 4 years
were: 1973, 1; 1974, 2; 1975, 17; 1976, 17. The applications lodged in each of these years
were: 1973, 13; 1974, 15; 1975, 52; 1976, 71.
(9/8/77)


## p. 2259 (#715) ###########################################

17 August
2259
Questions and Replies
Chateau Commodore and THC
153. Mrs BATCHELOR (Ayon), on behalf of Mr KIRK (Sydenham), asked the Minister
of Tourism: Can he confirm that the Tourist Hotel Corporation has been involved in
negotiations concerning the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch?
Hon. H. R. LAPWOOD (Minister of Tourism) replied: The Tourist Hotel Corporation
was initially, and informally, approached in 1976 on behalf of the Nauruan Government,
which was at that time considering the purchase of the Chateau Commodore properties. The
Tourist Hotel Corporation was asked to consider the possibility of administering a manage-
ment contract on behalf of the Nauruan Government should the properties be acquired. It is
believed that other organisations were similarly approached. Due to the Nauruan Govern-
ment's withdrawal of interest in buying the hotels the discussions between the two groups
ceased. I can confirm that the Tourist Hotel Corporation is not currently involved in any
negotiations concerning the Chateau Commodore in Christchurch.
(9/8/77)
Armed Forces-Salaries Review
154. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Defence: At what stage is the
review of salaries for members of the armed forces; is the review to be backdated: and when
will a decision be announced?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Defence) replied: A proposal for the major
restructure of the armed forces pay claim has been drafted by the Minister of Defence.
Because part of the restructure involves the establishment of benchmark positions in the
public services for the purpose of translating periodic wage increases in the State services,
and because the Government requires a report on all such propositions by the State Services
Co-ordinating Committee, a joint State Services Commission-Defence working party is
currently at work and should complete its task by the end of August. The Government is
likely to make its decision by the beginning of October. The question of backdating has not
been considered, but in any case results from the review could not be applied before 11
October, which is the end of the 12-month period from the date the last half-yearly survey
was applied in the State services.
(9/8/77)
Hawke's Bay Hospital Board-Waiting List
155. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Health: Has he seen an article in the
Hawke's Bay Herald-Tribune of 28 July 1977 in which the chairman of the Hawke's Bay
Hospital Board is reported as stating: "We can't justify a surgical waiting list of 1000 for
Napier alone with wards only half used. If it needs another surgeon then let's do it", and, if
so has he any plans to assist in reducing this list?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: I have seen the article referred to. The
surgical waiting list in Napier Hospital has not varied greatly up or down for the past 5 years.
The Hawke's Bay Hospital Board has recently taken a number of steps to improve the
situation. These include the appointment of a medical superintendent-in-chief of the board,
and a medical superintendent for the Napier Hospital, a full-time anaesthetist, and a
campaign to recruit suitably qualified nursing staff. The board also plans to review the
accuracy of its surgical waiting list to ensure that it contains only those still requiring surgery.
(9/8/77)
Open-heart Surgery-Cost
156. Mr BIRCH (Franklin) asked the Minister of Health: What is the average cost of an
open-heart surgical operation in a public hospital, and is this cost fully met by the State?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The Auckland Hospital Board estimates
that the cost of an open-heart surgical operation in its Green Lane unit at present is between
$2,500 and $4,000, depending on the type of operation performed. The cost is fully met by
the State for patients entitled to social security health benefits.
(9/8/77)
23.


## p. 2260 (#716) ###########################################

2260
17 August
Questions and Replies
Import Deposit Scheme
157. Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) asked the Minister of Customs: In view of the
Government's professed concern for small businesses, can he explain why importers
received such short notice of the extension of the import deposit scheme, and can he give an
assurance that he will make his decision much sooner when the next review is due in 6
months' time?
Hon P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied: When the scheme was initiated in
January 1976 the Minister of Finance stated that the scheme "will be kept under review in
the light of the need for scheme restraint". Subsequently, the scheme has been reviewed on
three occasions, one of which resulted in the reduction of a number of goods subject to the
payment of deposit effective from 30 July 1976. There has never been any advance
commitment that the scheme will necessarily be terminated on any specified date. There are
obvious advantages in deferring reviews to permit maximum information to be available on
import trends.
(10/8/77)
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 28
158. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he tell the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 28 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee, which states: "That the department should encourage
beneficiaries to have domestic purposes benefits paid into savings or budget accounts and
that consideration be given to authorising the commission to insist on this method of
payment in certain cases"?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Payment of a benefit directly
to a savings or bank account is currently only available in respect of family benefit and
national superannuation. However, it is proposed to extend this facility to other
beneficiaries, including domestic purposes beneficiaries, as soon as possible. The Social
Security (Monetary Benefits) Regulations have recently been amended to give the Social
Security Commission authority to pay a benefit in whatever manner it considers appropiate
in individual cases.
(10/8/77)
Car Pools-Insurance Contracts
159. Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central) asked the Minister of Transport: In view of his
interest in car pools, is he making recommendations to the Minister in Charge of the State
Insurance Office and the various motor insurance offices about clauses in insurance contracts
which inhibit or prevent such arrangements?
Hon. C. C. A. McLACHLAN (Minister of Transport) replied: As long as any car pooling
scheme is based on the following three principles it is not envisaged that clauses in insurance
contracts of private automobiles would inhibit or prevent any car pooling arrangements: (1)
that the scheme be run on a cost-sharing basis; (2) that those involved do not make a profit;
and (3) that only commuters are involved. I am informed that these principles were set out in
the Transport Amendment (Motor Spirit Conservation) Regulations 1973 specifically for the
purpose of ensuring that those people wanting to establish a car pooling arrangement were
not prevented from doing so by clauses in the insurance contracts of their cars. These
regulations also exempted drivers and vehicles involved in a car pooling scheme from various
legislative constraints applying to passenger service licensing, including regulation 4 of the
Motor Vehicle Indemnity Surcharge Regulations 1974. This ensures that the status of the
vehicle would not be impaired by its involvement in a car pooling scheme, as long as the
scheme is run on the three principles mentioned earlier. I am also informed that no further
legislation is needed to ensure that clauses in the insurance contracts do not prevent or
inhibit any car pooling scheme.
(10/8/77)
Little Barrier Island-Extermination of Wild Cats
160. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Lands: Can he indicate what
long-term programme has been adopted for the control and/or extermination of wild cats on
Little Barrier Island?


## p. 2261 (#717) ###########################################

17 August
2261
Questions and Replies
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) replied on behalf of the Minister of
Lands. Over the years several attempts have been made to eradicate the cats on Little
Barrier Island, but these have never been completely successful. In 1975 the wildlife service
of the Department of Internal Affairs, on behalf of the Hauraki Gulf Maritime Park Board,
commenced an intensive 4 to 5 year cat eradication programme. To date there has been a
noticeable decline in cat numbers as a result of this continuing programme, which is now at
about the halfway stage.
(10/8/77)
Contractors
161. Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga) asked the Minister of Works and Development: In
view of the Deputy Prime Minister's assurance to the Contractors Federation at Wanganui
when he was in Opposition that contractors need have no fear of the future under a National
Government, when does the Government propose to live up to this assurance?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The Government is
anxious to achieve a more stable situation in regard to construction than that which occurred
under the previous administration, when the country became overcommitted. The worst
thing that the Government could do would be to set up another boom-and-bust cycle, which
is the basic cause of the present problems. The Government's measures to keep construction
works within the resources available and encourage diversification into other areas is in the
long-term interests of the industry.
(10/8/77)
Post Office-Effect of Subsidy Payments
162. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What was the effect
on the Post Office administration of financing its operations by subsidy payments during the
period of the last Labour Government?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: During the period charges were
frozen the Post Office incurred losses totalling $65.7 million for the 3 years. These losses
were met by the payment of subsidies at the taxpayer's expense. The massive subsidy
payments had the effect of distorting the demand for Post Office services, because charges
were held at unrealistically low levels. The unexpectedly high demand for services not only
placed a greater burden on available resources but also disrupted the Post Office's planning
processes. Furthermore, I am assured by my department that management staff morale
suffers when personnel know they are working for an organisation that is not genuinely
paying its way.
(10/8/77)
Social Welfare-Services Provided by Voluntary Organisations
163. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: What
steps is his department prepared to take to extend salary subsidies to part-time field officers
of voluntary organisations providing supportive and counselling services in the community?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The Government is aware of
the valuable work being done by voluntary organisations providing supportive and counsel-
ling services. The question of subsidising the salaries of field officers engaged in this work
must, however, be considered in the light of other social welfare policies and commitment on
Government expenditure. It is noted that requests from various voluntary organisations for
similar payments were rejected by the Labour Government in 1974 and 1975.
(10/8/77)
Heroin-Disposal of Confiscated Drugs
164. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Police: As the Minister of
Health has indicated that the Department of Health does not receive confiscated heroin
from the Police Department, can he indicate how confiscated heroin is disposed of and what
supervision there is to ensure that all confiscated heroin is disposed of?
Hon. ALLAN MCCREADY (Minister of Police) replied: When heroin is seized by the
Police, it is immediately delivered to the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research
for analysis. It is then held in strict security until the court hearings and appeals, if any, in


## p. 2262 (#718) ###########################################

2262
17 August
Questions and Replies
respect of the particular case are completed. It is finally disposed of by being incinerated in
the presence of the public health pharmacist. On occasions some small quantities are
retained by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research for reference purposes,
and other small quantities are used for training narcotic detector dogs. Strict controls and
supervision exist to ensure that all the narcotic is safely disposed of, and, where it is
necessary to retain small quantities for the described purposes, maximum security is
ensured.
(10/8/77)
Machinery Tax on Contracting Equipment
165. Mr CHRISTIE (Napier) asked the Minister of Customs: Is any consideration being
given to the removal of the machinery tax as applying to contracting equipment?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs) replied: No consideration is being given to
extending the provisions for exemption from sales tax of contracting equipment beyond
those that already exist in respect of machinery used in coal mining, agriculture, and
forestry.
(10/8/77)
Waitakere Hospital-Stage 2
166. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Health: When will a start be
made on stage 2 of the Waitakere Hospital, West Auckland?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: Provision has been made in the works
programme for planning to start this financial year. Commencement of construction will
depend on the availability of financial and construction resources with due regard to the East
Tamaki, Papakura, and other committed works of the Auckland Hospital Board.
(10/8/77)
Children's Board
167. Mr LANGE (Mangere) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Is he satisfied with the
way in which children's boards are operating, and does he have any plans to alter the work of
these boards?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: Yes, I am satisfied with the
way children's boards are operating, and I have no plans to revise the work of these boards.
(10/8/77)
Farm Prices, Whangarei County
168. Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei) asked the Minister in Charge of the Valuation Depart-
ment: What was the increase in farm prices in the Whangarei County between 1972 and
1975?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting): I reply on behalf of the Minister in
Charge of the Valuation Department. Figures compiled by the Valuation Department show
that the average price of an economic farm unit sold in 1972 was $22,848, and 1975 it was
$52,600, an increase of 130.22 percent.
(10/8/77)
District Roads Council No. 8-Cost of Meetings
169. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Will he
make public the formal explanation demanded by the member for Hamilton West of the
alleged $30,000 cost of paper work for three council meetings of the No. 8 District Roads
Council?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The National Roads
Board has called for a report from the chairman of the roads council concerned, and until
such time as the report is received and considered by the board I am unable to advise the
member of the explanation requested.
(10/8/77)


## p. 2263 (#719) ###########################################

17 August
2263
Questions and Replies
Blood Tests-Costs
170. Mr LUXTON (Piako), on behalf of Mr BIRCH (Franklin), asked the Minister of
Health: What is the average cost of a blood test taken in a public hospital for (a) a New
Zealander for whom the cost is met by the State, and (b) an overseas visitor who meets the
cost himself?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: An accurate assessment of the average cost
of blood tests in a public hospital has never been attempted, as there are so many
departments involved and so many variables to be taken into account. An approximate guide
may be obtained from the average cost of $1.42 for diagnostic tests of all types carried out by
private pathology laboratories. The costs for both categories of people mentioned in the
question would be the same, based on the costs assessed by the hospital board concerned.
(10/8/77)
Divorce Statistics
171. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: How does he
reconcile his claim that the divorce rate is now one in three with the findings of David Swain
of Waikato University sociology department as reported in Zealandia, the Catholic news-
paper, of 24 July 1977, that “the divorce rate in this country has scarcely varied in the last 30
years"?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: At no stage have I claimed that
the divorce rate is now one in three. On a number of occasions I have referred to the
alarming increase in the number of people receiving domestic purposes benefits, and in this
context I have quoted the report of the recent Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Commit-
tee, which states: "Consistent with this trend are increases in separation and divorce rates (in
the latter case 1 divorce per 12 marriages in 1965, 1 per 5 in 1975, and an expected 1 for 3 in
1976), a drop in the marriage rate, and a probably related increase in unmarried mother-
hood."
(10/8/77)
Telephone Exchange, Howick
172. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Postmaster-General: Could he indicate when
the temporary exchange to be located at Howick is expected to come into operation?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General) replied: It is proposed to bring the
temporary exchange at Howick into service by the end of the year.
(10/8/77)
Twizel-Site and Accommodation Allowance
173. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of State Services: Why has the
Public Service Association application to have site and accommodation allowances for
Twizel payable to all occupational classes, including teachers, traffic officers, and dental
nurses required to reside within the confines of the project area, been declined?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of State Services) replied: The application by the Public
Service Association to the State Services Tribunal to have the site and accommodation
allowances paid to all State employees at Twizel was declined by the tribunal in April of this
year. This was properly a matter for the tribunal to adjudicate on, and I have no authority to
change this decision. Site and accommodation allowances are paid only to those employees
who are directly involved in work on projects. The only exception has been that Post Office
employees at Twizel have been paid site allowance by an earlier decision of the tribunal,
which has continued in force.
(10/8/77)
Domestic Purposes Benefit Review Committee-Recommendation 24
174. Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Can he advise the
House what plans he has to implement recommendation 24 of the Domestic Purposes
Benefit Review Committee: "That steps be taken as soon as possible to recruit more social
workers and to give special attention in their training to dealing with strained marriage
situations and the initial and follow-up work with domestic purposes beneficiaries"?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare) replied: The Government has already
taken steps to implement this recommendation. I should make it clear, however, that the
department's social workers will not be engaged in direct marriage guidance counselling.


## p. 2264 (#720) ###########################################

2264
17 August
Questions and Replies
About 70 appropriately experienced benefits staff are currently being selected so that the
new interviewing procedures and follow-up work with domestic purposes beneficiaries can
be brought into effect at an early date. In addition, steps are now being taken to advertise
more than 30 new social worker positions throughout the country to provide social work
back-up services. Staff selected will be given appropriate training in the particular respon-
sibilities involved.
(10/8/77)
Contracting Industry
175. Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru), on behalf of Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga),
asked the Minister of Works and Development: In view of the state of the contracting
industry in New Zealand, what proposals does he have that will restore it to a reasonable
state of efficiency, thus helping the economy generally?
Hon. W. L. YOUNG (Minister of Works and Development) replied: The honourable
member is implying that the contracting industry is inefficient. This is not the message that I
am getting from the contractors. On the contrary, they claim to be very efficient. Some do,
however, feel that there is less of the traditional type of work available—for example, road
construction and housing development. It is necessary to encourage the industry to diversify
into other areas, such as water supply, sewerage, stormwater drainage, and so on. The
recent measures in the Budget to lift the restrictions on local authority loans for these works
should open up new areas for the contracting industry. Additional funds have also been
allocated for rural water supply schemes. I would point out that, in spite of the current
financial difficulties, the Government has been able to maintain the overall level of the
works programme.
(10/8/77)
Northland Hospital Board-Finance for Development
176. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru), on behalf of Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei), asked the
Minister of Health: How much money has been granted to the Northland Hospital Board for
further development since the National Government took office?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health) replied: The following finance has been allocated to
the Northland Hospital Board for development during the term of the present Government.
During the 1976-77 year, a sum of $567,000 was provided to enable phase II of the
commissioning of the new ward and administration block at the Northland base hospital to
get under way. This was in addition to a grant for basic growth of $471,000 to allow the board
to further develop its existing services. In the 1977-78 year, a further $333,000 has been
provided for the board to complete the commissioning of the ward and administration block.
In addition, the Northland Hospital Board, along with other boards, has been asked to
submit proposals for expanding its community care services. However, requests from boards
are still coming in, and the Northland board's allocation will be decided when the Govern-
ment is in a position to consider all proposals.
(10/8/77)
DISCUSSION OF QUESTIONS-ADJOURNMENT
[Note The questions and the replies referred to in this discussion appear on the
preceding pages, and are numbered consecutively from 1 to 176.]
Mr LATTER (Marlborough): For the purpose of discussing Ministers' replies to
questions, I move, That the House do now adjourn. I should like to discuss questions 58 and
109, concerning the restriction of radio broadcasts of mid-week racing and trotting meetings.
In reply to question 58, the Minister of Internal Affairs said that he shared the concern
expressed and was worried about the financial effects on the industry. As a member of the
Government, I am worried about the effects on the Government's tax take, and I think this
is something that should be very carefully assessed. Question 109 asked the Minister of
Broadcasting for information on the survey undertaken. More information should be made
available on how the survey was undertaken, in which districts, how many forms were
distributed, and the adjustment made for the age group changes, because I believe that that
survey was allied to one undertaken some years ago and that it will show that fewer people
want to listen to racing.
The popularity of any service can be assessed in other ways. If it is true that fewer
people are interested in listening to the races, why is it that more than 500 000 copies of both
Turf Digest and Sportsweek are sold every week? I approve entirely of the moves for radio


## p. 2265 (#721) ###########################################

17 August
2265
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
and television to operate on a businesslike basis, but the business viability of racing
broadcasts cannot be rated by survey forms put out for people to fill in. A businessman does
not conduct a survey to find out if people see his product in a shop window; he looks at his
sales. The best way to find out whether the broadcasting of mid-week racing has an effect is
to look at the totalisator turnover of clubs that hold mid-week races.
I asked the Marlborough Trotting Club and the Marlborough Racing Club to supply me
with figures, and I guarantee that these figures are correct and up to date. On Wednesday,
27 April races 1 to 5 were not broadcast, and the totalisator takings for those races were:
$30,000, $23,000, $22,000, $23,000, and $28,000. Race 6 was broadcast, and the totalisator
takings were $49,600. It could be argued that perhaps people came to the races late in the
day, but race 7 was not broadcast and the totalisator turnover fell to $18,000. Race 8 was
broadcast, and the totalisator turnover went up to $38,000. The figures for the previous year
show the same trend. For the first five races, which were not broadcast, the totalisator
turnover averaged $20,000; for race 6, which was broadcast, the turnover was $33,000; but
that dropped to $24,000 for race 7, which was not broadcast, and rose to $35,000 for race 8,
which was broadcast.
The same picture emerges for the Marlborough Trotting Club. A mid-week meeting was
held on 15 June, and for the first five races, which were not broadcast, the totalisator
turnover averaged little more than $30,000. Race 6 was broadcast and the turnover rose to
$47,000, dropping to $24,000 for the seventh race, which was not broadcast, and rising to
$41,000 for race 8, which was broadcast. I approve of a businesslike approach, but I wonder
whether Mr Cross and the corporation have taken out figures similar to these for other
country clubs.
Mr Hunt: You appointed him.
Mr LATTER: He is a very good man, and so was his predecessor, and I am proud to say
so. I believe that simply asking people if they want to listen to racing is missing the point.
Many smaller racing clubs have entered into capital programmes not knowing there would
be a change in broadcasting policy. The Marlborough club has entered into a $200,000
building programme over the next 5 years, which will cost about $20,000 a year to service.
Under this proposal the club will lose $5,000 a year, but the Government will lose $15,000. I
am not asking the corporation to provide a service for nothing, but I am asking the
Government to have a close look at this. It might be better to stake the corporation to
broadcast the races, which would keep totalisator taxes up. I know this has been studied
already, but the Minister of Broadcasting should ask Mr Cross to have another look.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): I do not intend to dwell on the remarks made by
the member for Marlborough, but he touched on a very pertinent point, about which I have
received similar representations. I want to refer to question 34, which was asked by my
colleague the member for Christchurch Central. I state at the outset that the Government's
record in regional development is deplorable. It took over a policy that had swung into
action under the Labour Government at a remarkable rate. Ten regional development
councils had been established and were working enthusiastically, and people were thinking
regionally and were acting to promote the total development of New Zealand, which is
socially and economically desirable.
The Minister of Finance, at a time when he should have been encouraging regional
development, took the pruning knife to areas he should have left alone; the Minister's
answer to question 34 identifies the areas in which these cuts were made. The Government's
attitude to regional development was clearly demonstrated by the removal of certain districts
from the regional development priority classification. Suspensory loans on plant and
equipment, training costs and assistance, and suspensory loans for buildings, were all
drastically reduced. Small projects assistance was restricted, and regional development was
slashed in all but priority areas.
In a written question on 5 July, I asked the Minister what was the total amount spent
from the regional development programme for the South Canterbury regional development
district for the year ending 31 March 1977, how much Development Finance Corporation
loan money was injected into the region in the same period, and what were the comparative
figures for the year ended 31 March 1976. The Minister's reply on 8 July revealed that for the
year ending 31 March 1977 the figure was $54,724, and for the previous 12 months it was
$122,000. The loans approved by the DFC, compiled on a June year basis, show that for the
same periods the figures were $733,000 and $1.9 million respectively.
When the South Canterbury Regional District Council pointed out to the Minister that
his policy was discouraging regional development, the Minister took umbrage. He is


## p. 2266 (#722) ###########################################

2266
17 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
reported in the Otago Daily Times on 2 July 1977 as saying he did not agree that there had
been a decrease in Government interest in the development of the region. The Minister
admitted there had been a lessening of activity by the region. At a time when extra
encouragement should have been given by the Government to regional development, and
when it could be done more competitively and economically, there was a lessening of
interest. Some of the programmes that were cut have been reinstated in the Budget, and
Government members are quick to try to capitalise on this. However, this goes only a short
way towards replacing what was taken away last year. The Minister of Finance, who should
be more concerned, is too busy writing a book about himself—a classic example of egotistic
self-indulgence that the country cannot afford. He should be spending more time looking at
what can be done to help regional development.
In an article in the Timaru Herald of 21 September 1976, the Parliamentary Under-
Secretary to the Minister of Trade and Industry said that the Government would probably
have a look at the new policy of regional development based on resources in the latter half of
next year. The latter half of next year would be this year. Some projects on the drawing
board have been killed stone dead because of lack of Government interest. I can understand
the Under-Secretary's confusion, because he is the Under-Secretary to three Ministers, the
Minister of Regional Development, the Minister of Trade and Industry, and the Minister of
Overseas Trade—and two of them do not speak, half the time. I understand that he has to be
a political gymnast, and he has been displaying his ability on this occasion. Maybe it is not as
difficult for him as it would be for other members in those circumstances, but he does
deserve a certain amount of sympathy.
Mr H. N. AUSTIN (Hobson): Before I refer to questions 44 and 117, the comments of
the member for Timaru cannot go unanswered. He referred to the Government's lack of
support for regional development. I remind the member that the regional development
councils set up by the Labour Government were ill-defined and had vague terms of
reference. The councils ran out of work, and the review provided by the Labour Govern-
ment when it went out of office reflected the economic climate at the time. Loan approvals
depend on the number of applicants, and there is no restriction on applications. Regional
development covers many fields. Question 44 asked how many small hydro-electric schemes,
as announced by my colleague the Minister of Energy Resources, were being envisaged. I
note that there are 19 possible small schemes throughout the country. That could be termed
regional development, although the funds do not come out of the regional development
programme. The schemes would all make a useful contribution to the nation's electricity
supply.
I should like to refer to one regional development scheme in my electorate, the Kaihu
Valley multi-purpose scheme. I am pleased to see that the scheme has been mentioned. It
will provide not only power generation but water reticulation and irrigation for two counties
and two growing boroughs. The development project is running into snags at present. Last
week, the North Auckland Electric Power Board made an application to the catchment
commission for $8,000 as a contribution towards the $21,500 required for water rights. The
application was declined by the catchment commission, and rightly so, because the commis-
sion will have to adjudicate on the decision. I shall consult my colleague the Minister of
Works and Development in an endeavour to have the matter investigated. The power
potential of the scheme is estimated at 14 to 15 MW. I commend another scheme announced
by my colleague the Minister of Energy Resources, the exploration and drilling for
geothermal energy at Ngawha, near Kaikohe. Three bores will be put down before
Christmas, at a cost of about $1 million. A preliminary survey in 1968 showed that this could
be a worth-while project.
Both schemes I have mentioned are not only regional development, but national
development. I ask the Opposition to define where regional development ends and where
national development starts. The one is dovetailed into the other. The Government is calling
for reports from the various development councils; three have been received and others are
due in a month or two. The council in my electorate is not waiting for co-ordination of all the
regional development programmes, but is going ahead with its own investigation of regional
development proposals. One cannot differentiate between regional development and
national development, because they go hand in hand. I give full marks to my colleague the
Minister of Energy Resources for initiating the Budget proposal for hydro-electric schemes
and small geothermal schemes. I commend the Government's regional development prog-
ramme to the Opposition for serious consideration and support.
Mr CHRISTIE (Napier): If the member for Hobson had said what the Government was


## p. 2267 (#723) ###########################################

17 August
2267
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
doing for regional development, he would have done the House a service. In its last year, the
Labour Government spent $350,000 in Northland. This year, the figure is not $350,000, or
$35,000, but only $3,000. I had hoped the member for Hobson would take the opportunity to
speak to questions 34, 11, 24, 49, and 66, all of which deal with regional development. He
should have got stuck into his Ministers about regional development in Northland. What is
happening in his area is happening in other areas. I remind the member for Hobson that the
Labour Government started regional development in the areas that needed it. He spoke
about electricity when he should have been thinking about the jobs that must be going
begging in Northland. Jobs are going begging in Hawke's Bay. A heading in last night's
Napier newspaper reads, "Two hundred girls in Hastings on the dole queue". Is the
Government happy about that?
The Minister has claimed that the dramatic fall in regional development expenditure is
due to a more cautious approach by the private sector. How silly can he be? Many industrial
concerns have approached the Government for assistance, and have been turned down. In
Napier, Permacraft Industries has closed down. The company employed 150 people. I point
out to the Minister of Overseas Trade that in 1975 Permacraft Industries exported goods
worth $20,000, in 1976, $60,000, and in 1977 the company had hoped to boost the figure to
$100,000. What happened to the company? It twice approached the Government for
assistance, but was turned down. The company needed $60,000 to tide it over and to keep
150 Napier people employed. We all know why the company was turned down by the
Government-because of the superannuation scheme that gives money to the people who do
not need it. Companies are starved for cash and are struggling under record inflation and
record interest rates. Thanks to the Government, a Napier industry has been lost and 150
jobs have also been lost. The Government's economic policy is driving regional economies to
the wall.
Jody Industries in Napier has become a victim of the Government's dismal failure in the
NAFTA negotiations. The Minister of Trade and Industry has been a dismal failure in the
negotiations of NAFTA. Twenty machinists and associated workers have lost their jobs at
Jody Industries. I should have thought that the member for Hobson would tell the Minister
about the people in Northland. Government members should tell the Minister that they want
the people to have jobs.
New Zealand's four major container ports will soon have a serious congestion problem.
Secondary ports, including Napier, are lying idle. With regional development these ports
would grow; instead of the cargo going out in containers, it would go out over the wharves of
the secondary ports. It is time the Minister of Transport took the overseas shipping
companies by the scruff of the neck and told them that, if they do not put ships into these
ports, the Shipping Corporation will put in small container ships. It is time the Minister did
something about getting a ship that could go into ports like Napier, Timaru, and New
Plymouth. It is time he took to the shipping companies, and stopped being overwhelmed by
them.
Mr LAMBERT (Western Hutt): The member for Napier should get his facts straight
about regional development, particularly regional development in Northland. If he had
looked at a question asked by his colleague the member for Northern Maori recently, he
would have found that the employment position in Northland has improved. Seventeen
factories closed down, with a loss of 35 jobs, but more factories opened and provided 61
jobs. That pattern has been repeated in many parts of New Zealand. For instance, in the
Wairarapa 18 factories were closed and 103 jobs lost, but 20 new factories have opened,
providing 171 jobs. The same thing has happened in Canterbury; in fact, that pattern has
been repeated throughout the country. This Government does not have the same kind of
regional development philosophy as the previous Government had. I should like to correct
the member for Napier, who said that the Labour Government started regional develop-
ment. Goodness me, regional development plans were well under way under the previous
National Government.
I turn to question 44, dealing with small hydro schemes. Thre is no doubt that the time
of greatest development in New Zealand coincided with the development of hydro electric-
ity. The potential for big power schemes has mostly been taken up now, and we must move
into a second phase. The Government has done this with the announcement of a new
policy for the development of smaller hydro-electric schemes throughout New Zealand;
indeed, the Minister of Energy Resources recently listed 19 such schemes. They are schemes
of 50 MW or less, but they will be valuable local resources, and are an important part of the
Government's regional development policy. The Government's policies on regional


## p. 2268 (#724) ###########################################

2268
17 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
development are not piecemeal, as those of the Labour Government were. They do not
involve just looking at a project and saying, "We will shell out so many thousand dollars
here, and so many there." That is what the Labour Government did with schemes like the ill-
fated Matai Industries. This Government looks at regional development as a co-ordinated
plan of development throughout New Zealand.
The Government is actively co-operating with local bodies, and is making a systematic
nationwide assessment of the possibilities for smaller hydro-electric developments. At the
same time, it is ensuring that the schemes do not create environmental problems. Some of
my constituents have expressed concern about possible hydro-electric schemes in the
Tararuas, but such schemes will proceed only after environmental and statutory require-
ments have been complied with. The Government will actively support this second-phase
development of small hydro-electric schemes by providing finance for the cost of detailed
investigation and design. The Government will provide 90 percent of the finance required
for the development of approved schemes, and the authorities building the schemes must
raise the other 10 percent from traditional sources.
Mr KIRK (Sydenham): The Government has responded to the comments on regional
development by saying that it supports this concept but it has yet to show the South Island
that it has any interest in regional development. The treatment suffered by the South Island
over the last 18 months has meant that the whole area should be considered for regional
development. It needs some economic consideration-far more than it has so far had from
the National Government. As Opposition spokesman on tourism, I believe that the best
regional development aid to the South Island would be for the Minister of Tourism to
promote the South Island to the extent that all the accommodation there would be taken up.
I thought this was a private-enterprise Government, but when one considers the number of
hotel beds in Christchurch that are empty-
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: You must be joking!
Mr KIRK: As a result of the direction tourism is taking under this Minister, the time is
more than appropriate for directing some flights from Auckland to Christchurch. The
Minister of Tourism likes to interject. I wonder if he will take part in the debate and tell us
where he stands in supporting tourism in the South Island. The Government thinks that
private enterprise should deal with the increase in rooms from 753 to 1131.
I was interested to note that the member for Lyttelton did not know what kind of
aircraft can use Christchurch International Airport. She had to be told by the Minister that it
was possible for Boeing 747s and DC10s to come to Christchurch direct from Fiji,
Rarotonga, and Singapore. The Minister of Tourism and the Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services should take some steps to encourage private operators to bring
tourists to the South Island direct from their countries of origin. It seems to me that the
Minister of Tourism has some objection to this. The Minister of Transport seems to think
that there is something wrong with giving the South Island a fair chance, and first crack at the
tourists. Air New Zealand has established a flight kitchen in Christchurch, and that kitchen
would be quite able to cater for extra traffic.
Those in the tourist industry in the South Island are concerned at the empty beds there,
and it concerns them that the Minister of Tourism has done absolutely nothing to foster
increased traffic to the South Island. He has just sat pat. Eight new international flights will
probably be coming into Auckland in the next year. I have not heard the Minister of Tourism
suggesting that the South Island should have first crack at these tourists. The attitude of the
Minister of Tourism seems to be to take the money from the tourists in the North Island and
send them to the South Island almost broke. That is what is happening. The Minister should
consult some of the people in the South Island industry, and find out just how oppressed and
depressed they feel. There is a strong case for the commencement of international flights
into Christchurch. I am keen to see the Minister organise these but he does not support the
concept.
We will be making this clear to people in the South Island, the tourist interests, and the
local authorities—those who would gain good revenue and employment opportunities from a
better tourist industry in the South Island-and they will have the opportunity next year to
tell the Minister of Tourism what they think about his inadequacies in ensuring a supply of
tourists for the South Island. He has left the accommodation industry high and dry. The
Minister should visit the South Island and talk to some of these people. He should talk to the
Minister of Civil Aviation and Meteorological Services, and find out what he is prepared to
do about the matter.
Mr COOPER (Otago Central): We are getting a roaring and monotonous harangue


## p. 2269 (#725) ###########################################

17 August
2269
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
about regional development from Opposition members. They sound as though they are
reading out the symptoms on a medicine bottle. They certainly show a lot of enthusiasm
when a factory is closed, but very little enthusiasm when factories are opened. They
somehow believe that we cannot close factories, but that we can open them all the time. The
member for Dunedin Central would be known in his electorate and throughout the South
Island for his association with closing factories. Government members will be known for
their association with opening factories.
In a resource-based regional development programme there is no place whatsoever for
Utopian schemes that are impractical and impossible of realisation. We must base regional
development on regional resources. We cannot afford to put monstrous sums into industries
that are going to need propping up continuously. The Evening Star of 30 July 1977 states:
"The money is up for grabs if our companies want to take it. The relaxation of restrictions
for suspensory loans means that Otago companies can look forward to short-term develop-
ment, and consider stage by stage development." The Opposition knows that the vote for
regional development has been increased by 15 percent in real terms. Otago has never had a
better chance to take advantage of the Government's regional development programme.
The member for Dunedin Central goes around with a face that looks as though it had
worn out four bodies—a gloomy prognosticator and no cheer leader, that person. He should
look at the Budget, and be prepared to understand what is happening. Today's Otago Daily
Times states: "The greatest problem in regard to regional development in the Dunedin area
is the shortage of industrial land." The member for Dunedin Central should realise that for
12 years he has been parroting the same story; he has been hypnotised by it, and has lost
touch with reality.
Looking into the Otago hinterland, we find that eight new rural water supply schemes
were commenced last year, and another 11 are in the process line-19 new schemes in 2
years. It has taken about 30 years to provide the existing 31 schemes. The National
Government has initiated a 33 percent increase in projects to develop irrigation and rural
water supplies, in great contrast to the Labour Government, the members of which went in
with their heads empty and a full purse in 1972, spent the lot, and achieved very little.
Opposition members are completely obsessed by factories and factory jobs. They will
not look at agriculture; they will not look at putting water on to land; they will not look at
our policies. The member for Mangere, who is trying to interject, is completely obsessed
with spending money. He is in the social welfare league, and does not believe in profitability
and productivity. Unless we have soundly based and resource-based regional development
programmes, the people in Mangere will not benefit. They certainly will not benefit from
regional development of the propping-up type carried out by the Labour Government. The
Budget looks forward to regional development that provides long-term jobs. The fishing
industry is regional development.
The member for Sydenham, the Opposition spokesman on tourism, seemed to talk in
paradoxes. He clearly spoke about the problems of insufficient accommodation in the South
Island, and then said in the next sentence that more people should be going to the South
Island as there are too many empty beds. That is having both sides of the same bed. I believe
that places such as Queenstown, areas such as Otago Central, the West Coast, and
Southland, and the South Island itself have benefited tremendously from tourism and from
agricultural inputs, but it is absolutely essential that they be resource based.
Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast): I refer to question 34. When the Labour Govern-
ment relinquished the reins of office in 1975, the regional development councils were well
established. In fact they were starting to blossom in great style, showing what could be done
with a little bit of help from these councils, but it did not take long under the present
Government for their efforts to dwindle and decline. In many electorates the councils were
most ineffective. In my electorate there is plenty of room for regional development. The
council is ripe for many enterprises-so many that it would take hours for me to outline
them, so in the few minutes at my disposal I wish to emphasise that the West Coast Regional
Development Council is pushing for something that we could do really well. I refer to the
domesticated white rabbit industry, which is doing so well in other parts of the world. Our
council is pursuing this matter to see if unused ground on the West Coast could be used to
house, feed, grow, and process those beautiful white furs, and also to give people now and
again some tasty underground mutton, which they cannot get at present. The big New
Zealand white rabbit is different from the rabbit that frightens the farmers, the one that runs
away, breeds, and spreads. The big white rabbit would perish if it got out of control and was
not looked after domestically. More will be heard about it as the year goes on.


## p. 2270 (#726) ###########################################

2270
17 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
Another enterprise for which regional development councils asked the Government's
help is the coal industry. I have talked before about the Rayburn coal-fired heaters, which
should be made in New Zealand. Not enough heaters are being made, so we are short of
heaters. If they were made in New Zealand, they would provide cheap heating. I have said
before that coal-fired heating costs 32c a therm, while oil-fired heating costs 62c. Last month
the Government purchased oil worth $1,700,000 for electricity. Generous help should be
given to regional development councils to get an industry going on the West Coast to make
these coal-fired heaters, which would save the electricity that is now being wasted on heating
and hot water. I also ask the Government what is being done with the big machine that was
purchased years ago, in the late Mr Shand's time, to take coal to New Plymouth to fire the
power station there. The machine is still in cold storage and has not been taken out of its
cases, and the New Plymouth power station is using oil instead of coal. That big machine,
which cost $500,000, should be used.
There should be more reafforestation with both exotic and suitable native trees.
Knowing the position of the timber industry on the West Coast, we have been pleading with
the Minister for the last 2 or 3 months to speed up reafforestation; otherwise, he will have a
big problem on his hands. The suggested particle board factory at Reefton needs money to
run. If the 344 000 people who signed the petition to stop native trees on the Coast being cut
down were sincere, and if they each paid $10 for a share in this particle board factory, we
would have $3,440,000 for a start. Some very wealthy people signed that petition. If they
contributed $1,000 instead of $10, we would soon have $30 million, and, with a good regional
development council and finance from the Development Finance Corporation, we would
have this particle board factory going in Reefton. That is the test of sincerity. The first
people who should be asked for money are those who organised the petition and those who
signed it. They should be asked to take up shares in the new particle board factory they have
been advocating for the salvation of Reefton and of the West Coast building industry.
Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East): I had hoped to speak to question 151, which refers to
residential homes for the intellectually handicapped, but it appears that Opposition
members think they have a winner in regional development. One or two points about
regional development should be made clear, because the argument put up by members
opposite is adequately reflected in a statement made by Professor Geoffrey Palmer a little
while back. He said: "And then when you're engaged in the business of policy making
there's a sort of fog that descends on things, and pretty soon it's not very clear why you're
doing what you're doing, and it's very easy to lose sight of the target that you're aiming at."
That sort of thinking-from one of the fantastic brains that are unfortunately employed by
the Government at the university, but made use of by the Labour Party from time to
time-could well apply to regional development.
Members opposite seem to adopt a myopic view of regional development, and believe
that, unless assistance is given in the vote for regional development, it is not regional
development. That is a rather ridiculous attitude to take, especially when Opposition
members have hinged their arguments on question 44, which refers to small hydro schemes,
which are certainly not mentioned in the regional development programme. The 19
possible schemes extend from the north-and the member for Hobson mentioned
this down to Otago, Buller, and Waimea, and affect probably every other region in the
country; although they are not assisted through the regional development programme, they
are certainly based in the regions. I defy any member opposite to tell me that those schemes
are not based in the regions.
Many of the regional schemes for which crocodile tears have been shed by at least two
members opposite are based in the South Island. It is about time that members opposite
looked at the total support that is being given. The member for Timaru is whining about
regional development. When he was Minister of Transport he could not even decide where
to put a container port. Schemes of the sort I have mentioned, although not provided for in
the regional development programme, are certainly related to the regions.
The member for West Coast said a few words about a petition. I am sure that by now he
will have read that petition, and has seen that special consideration was given to the West
Coast. However, he seems to think that the people who signed the petition are hell-bent on
the destruction of the West Coast. A bit more noise is coming from the member for West
Coast, who is trying to interject. He talked about the lack of work for regional councils.
However, I understand that they ran out of work because their terms of reference were too
restrictive and too ill-defined. They were never given the independence promised them by
the previous Government.


## p. 2271 (#727) ###########################################

17 August
2271
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
Opposition members are wandering around the country, especially the South Island,
telling the people that the Labour Party has a fantastic new regional development policy.
Will the Labour Party keep its terms of reference as restrictive as they were, or will it more
adequately and more clearly define the responsibilities of the regional councils and give them
the independence it promised? The Labour Government certainly did not do that when it
was mucking about in the South Island from 1973 to 1975.
A vital point in regional development is the utilisation of resources. Two of New
Zealand's major resources are water and soil, a fact that seems to have been overlooked by
members opposite. One of the most impressive impacts on the regions has been that of
agriculture, which utilises our best and most effective resources-water and soil. When the
last lamented Labour Government was in office, New Zealand could not produce sufficient
wheat even for its own needs. Rubbishy wheat had to be imported from Australia, and
bakers moaned and groaned about its quality. Today, we are self-sufficient. The potential
for regional development in the South Island has not been fully utilised.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui): Regional development was a decisive issue in changing
the Government in 1972, and it will be a decisive issue in changing the Government in 1978.
It is significant to note in the Supplementary Order Paper the number of questions asked
about regional development, and the areas that are mentioned. Question 11 asks about
regional development in Northland; question 14 asks about closures in Canterbury; question
16 concerns closures in Otago; question 24 asks about closures on the East Coast; question
89 concerns the closure of woollen mills; and a very comprehensive question was asked by
the member for Christchurch Central about the restrictions imposed on the regional
development programme last year.
In the three all-too-short years for which Labour served as the Government, 11 regional
development councils were established. They provided financial assistance for established
industries, and all over the country there are signs of the kind of assistance the Labour
Government was able to give through suspensory loans, and through the work of the
Development Finance Corporation. New industries were established, especially those
concerned with processing New Zealand's raw materials and with increasing and diversifying
our exports. In those 3 years, the Labour Government was concerned with reorganising the
Development Finance Corporation, and made it a major vehicle for New Zealand's
industrial development. It is significant that, in spite of the other things the National
Government has done to discourage regional development, this is one activity it has left
almost intact.
I take up the point quite rightly made by the member for Hamilton East, that the
recognition of regional development is much wider than is mentioned in the Trade and
Industry vote. The Labour Government did many things. The member for Wairarapa will
vouch for the decentralisation of the Government Printing Office to his electorate. Other
instances included the decentralisation of the philatelic bureau to Wanganui. The re-
organisation of local government was part of the Labour Government's concern for the
regions, but, unfortunately, the teeth have been pulled out of that. The health services were
to be reorganised; that was designed, in part, to take away from Wellington some of the
responsibility for health decisions, which was to be given to the regions. As the Rt. Hon. Sir
John Marshall said in his farewell speech in the House, those things were forecast in 1954; he
recognised the inevitability of those moves. The arts councils were regionalised, and there
was a revival of confidence in the regions, especially in the provincial cities.
What has the National Government done? I refer again to question 34, in which the
Minister lists the cuts made last year in the regional development programme. Restrictions
were placed on several regions, there was a new maximum for suspensory loans, and a "once
only" option was available for local industries. Last year the vote for regional development
was $5.3 million, but as only $3.7 million was used, it was substantially underspent. In other
words—as this year's Budget has recognised those cuts were unnecessary. It is interesting
to note that some of the items that were cut have been reinstated this year, nevertheless the
vote has been reduced by $1 million from even what was set aside last year.
Regional development ought to be expanded, not restricted. The provincial cities, and
the rural areas they serve, cannot be ignored. We need to view regions as a whole, not just
the cities that are at their centre. Under the National Government, the South Island regions
have been steadily eroded. Rail services have been cut. There have been delays in the
development of community colleges and in increases in local body interest rates, and an
emasculation of local government legislation. The Government won seats in a number of
provincial cities, which are crucial to the regional development of the country; I should like


## p. 2272 (#728) ###########################################

2272
17 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
to think that members for places like Whangarei, Gisborne, Wairarapa, New Plymouth,
Marlborough, Oamaru, Dunedin North, Invercargill, Otago Central, and Awarua-those
members are led by the chairman of the caucus committee, who is now making such a loud
noise and trying to interject-would make more noise about regional development.
Mr DOWNIE (Pakuranga): I shall address my remarks to questions 144, 158, and 174,
but before doing so I want to refer to the comments made by the previous speaker. Labour's
credibility on the subject of regional development can be summed up in one word—Matai.
Members opposite wagged their fingers all around the country, and made all sorts of noises
suggesting that they had the answers in regional development, but the setting up of capital-
intensive industries that were miles away from the markets--such as Matai-was doomed to
failure. Yet this afternoon members of the Opposition have been talking along the same
lines, and suggesting that such activities should be continued. I find it rather surprising that
the previous speaker should have devoted so much time to regional development, when he,
and other speakers, failed to make any reference-or very little-to social welfare.
Members opposite profess much concern for the disadvantaged sections of the commun-
ity. The Government has a responsibility not only to people who are in need, but also those
who foot the bill-the taxpayers. The Labour Government failed to grasp that principle in
the administration of the domestic purposes benefit. The ability to handle the situation was
well beyond members opposite. In 1972, 6100 domestic purposes benefits were being paid,
but by 1976 that number had climbed to more than 23 000. Under Labour, far too many
people in the Department of Social Welfare were working on avoidable administration
work-I refer to the method of paying benefits. Very many people in Department of Social
Welfare offices throughout the country were employed solely on checking orders and
cheques that had gone astray in the mail, or in some other way. Sometimes it took up to 12
months to trace cheques and orders that it had been claimed were lost. That represented a
substantial waste of time for the department.
It is little wonder that Government expenditure was out of control under Labour.
Under this Government it has been brought into line, and the elimination of unnecessary
expenditure on the administration of benefit payments has top priority. I directed a question
to the Minister asking about the position of payments to beneficiaries; he replied that, as
soon as the computer could cope, they would all be paid into bank accounts. That is a great
step forward. It will encourage people to operate bank accounts when they have not done so
before, and it will save the wastage of manpower. The Minister of Social Welfare asked for
an investigation into the domestic purposes benefit, and a report was brought down by the
committee he set up.
Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central): I shall address my remarks to question 34. This
has been an extraordinary debate; and we have heard some very strange comments from
Government members. The member for Western Hutt said that regional development was
well away under the former National Government. Well away is right-it was so far away
that it was not even visible. There was no regional development before 1972. Members
opposite know that to be true.
The member for Western Hutt and the member for Pakuranga referred to Matai, and
made some scathing comments. They would not make those comments on the West Coast
today. Every one of those industries is functioning-certainly under different
management—and I know that the member for West Coast is proud of them. I have recently
seen some of those industries in operation. One in Westport is a rapidly expanding plastics
industry-I think it is called PDC. Every one of the industries established by Matai is
functioning, and people have come back to the West Coast from Christchurch and other
parts of the South Island. Job opportunities have been provided. Never mind criticising
Matai-it is doing very well. Those jobs were provided by the Labour Government and, as
the member for West Coast said, some of those industries are exporting.
The member for Otago Central claimed that I was associated with the closing of
factories in the South Island. That sort of remark does not become the member. He knows
very well that the Labour Government provided job opportunities right throughout the
country, and nowhere was that better emphasised than in Otago; more than 40 companies
received direct aid from the Labour Government. Some are still receiving assistance, but a
lot are not, because the Government has phased out many of the incentives provided by the
Labour Government. The member also said that we never looked at agriculture—I think his
words were that we will not look at agriculture. As a Government we settled more young
people on farms than the National Government has ever done. The number of young people
settled during the term of the Labour Government was far greater than in any previous


## p. 2273 (#729) ###########################################

17 August
2273
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
3-year period under the National Government. Again, the member for Otago Central is
wrong.
The regional development programme is gradually being phased out by this Administra-
tion. Freight subsidies have gone. A few are still provided in Otago, but on a diminishing
basis-20 percent this year, 15 percent next year, 10 percent the following year, and then
out. Factory closures have been mentioned today. Three major factories in Otago have
closed in the last 2 years, and many jobs have been lost. The unfavourable NAFTA terms
agreed to by Ministers in this Government have meant that the clothing industry has been
affected, as has the whiteware industry. People are again losing their jobs. Lane Walker
Rudkin Ltd was to establish a factory in Invercargill, but has not able to do so because of the
NAFTA terms. More than 100 young women were signed up to start in the factory. It has not
started yet, and is not likely to start for some time—in fact, it will probably not start until
Labour becomes the Government. The National Government was not able to reach a proper
agreement with the Australian clothing industry.
The Labour Government restructured the Development Finance Corporation, and
money poured into the regions from the corporation. Whereas the money had previously
gone to big industries, it is now being broken down and is going to small industries, and is
assisting the regions. The member for Dunedin North recently said that members of the
public should not have to queue for regional assistance. That was an interesting remark. I bet
he would not tell the manufacturers in Otago that he said they should not have to queue for
handouts. Well, if they do not receive some assistance from the Government, they will all be
moving north. We have seen that happen in the past; many factories have closed down and
moved north. Gadsens, or AHI, followed that course just recently; it closed down its factory
and moved to Christchurch. That is yet another industry that Otago has lost.
Richard Walls: Why?
Mr MacDONELL: The member for Dunedin North knows why. It was because his
Government decided to give no help to the St. George company, and therefore the AHI
canning factory had to close down.
Richard Walls: That's a lie. That is a deliberate misrepresentation.
An Hon. Member: Rubbish!
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I draw your attention to
the fact that a member called out in a most offensive way to the member who was speaking.
Hon. G. F. Gair: As Minister of Regional Development, I have been following the
debate very keenly. I know that the member for Dunedin North interjected very strongly,
but he was sorely provoked by the member who was speaking, who made a point-not just
once, but three times-that the member for Dunedin North knew to be incorrect.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: The remark was offensive, and, whether or not the member who
made it felt he was provoked, he should not have been provoked to the point of being
offensive. Members on this side are objecting to the offensive nature of the interjection, not
to whether or not the member was correct in interjecting at all.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I am sorry that I did not have the benefit of hearing what
other members heard. Members might be aware that my attention was distracted for a
moment, as I was speaking with the Clerk of the House. The only interjection I heard was
the word "rubbish", but that was obviously not the one that is being referred to. I do not
believe honourable members would want me to ask that the word be repeated, but if any
member feels that the words the member for Dunedin North used were offensive, perhaps I
I could ask him to withdraw them.
Richard Walls: The word objected to has not been mentioned, but I presume it was
"lie". I interjected, "That's a lie", and followed it by saying, "That is a deliberate
misrepresentation." I am happy to withdraw the word "lie", but the fact is that it was a
deliberate misrepresentation.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! As the honourable member has admitted that he used
words which I am sure he knows are unparliamentary, I must ask him to withdraw them. He
must withdraw them without qualification, and that will be the end of the matter.
Richard Walls: I shall withdraw them without qualification, and will seek leave to make
a personal statement when the member who was speaking has concluded his address.
Mr MacDONELL: The member for Dunedin North has been talking about misrepresen-
tation. In 1975 he said that freight subsidies would be continued and expanded, but they are
now being phased out.
RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North): During the course of his speech the member for
Dunedin Central made a comment about me, and I seek the leave of the House to make a


## p. 2274 (#730) ###########################################

2274
17 August
Discussion of Questions-Adjournment
personal explanation about my own position.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I should
like the member to clarify the position. Is he seeking leave to make a personal explanation
because he claims he was misrepresented, or what is the position? We need to know, so that
if we are invited to give our approval we will know how to conduct ourselves. At the moment
we are in the dark, in that we do not know what the honourable member wants.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Perhaps the member for Dunedin North could help the
House. Members often get two matters mixed up. One is the matter of making a personal
explanation; that is done by seeking the leave of the House to make a personal explanation
when a member considers that his honour, or conduct, or something of that nature, is
involved in a statement made inside or outside the House. In that case, he can follow the
procedure of seeking the leave of the House to make a personal explanation. The other
matter relates to correcting the misquotation of a statement a member has made during the
course of the debate. I do not think that the member for Dunedin North has taken part in the
debate this afternoon, and therefore he is not entitled to use the procedure whereby he can
correct a misquotation of something he has said. However, if he wishes to make a personal
explanation, he must seek the leave of the House to do so. The normal procedure is to ask
for the leave of the House and to give an indication of the matter the member wishes to
explain to the House.
RICHARD WALLS: I have been receiving a lot of advice from my colleagues around
me, and from this distance it has been a little difficult to hear the advice you gave, Mr
Deputy Speaker. In his address, the member for Dunedin Central said clearly that I—
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! The honourable member has to seek the leave of the
House to make a personal explanation, and must explain briefly to the House why he seeks
that leave. In that way, members will know whether or not to give him the leave he seeks. I
cannot give him leave on my own initiative. I have to take the pleasure of the House whether
or not a member may make a personal explanation.
RICHARD WALLS: A statement that I recently made in the House was picked up by
the member for Dunedin Central, who claimed that I had made a statement that was
completely contrary to the one I had in fact made. After I had interjected, the member for
Dunedin Central then said, "You know that is correct." If I have the leave of the House to
make the statement I wish to make, I shall correct the position.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Is it the pleasure of the House that the member for Dunedin
North be given permission to make a personal explanation? There appears to be no
objection.
RICHARD WALLS: I am sorry about the confusion that has arisen. The member for
Dunedin Central stated clearly that I knew that the closures of two factories in Dunedin had
been due to the Government's actions or non-actions on its regional development policy.
The Order Papers and the Supplementary Order Papers some weeks back show that the
Minister of Regional Development has made it clear that both companies were receiving
regional development assistance at the time of their decision to close. As a member of the
Otago Regional Development Council, I can confirm that that was so, and it is incorrect to
say otherwise in the House. I wanted to make the position clear.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! Perhaps the honourable member would care to consult
the Standing Orders and Speaker's Rulings, and, if he wishes, he can consult the Clerk of the
House, me, or one of the Whips. I am sure that any one of us will be able to guide him on the
correct procedure to adopt when seeking the leave of the House to make a personal
explanation. Under that procedure when the leave of the House is sought it is usually
granted, but members should not misuse the procedure in any circumstances. The procedure
is available simply to enable a member to protect his own honour or to explain an action he
has taken himself, not in relation to the debate.
The time allowed for the discussion of questions and replies having expired, the motion
lapsed.
DISCUSSION OF MOTIONS
National Superannuation
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I move, That this House notes
with no surprise the question asked in the Evening Post of 9 August 1977, “Just how long can
New Zealand afford the huge Super handout?”, recalls the statement made by the member for
Hamilton West, reported in the Wairarapa Times-Age of 29 June 1977, that "he doubted the


## p. 2275 (#731) ###########################################

17 August
2275
Discussion of Motions
country could long sustain paying superannuation benefits to those who were still working, and
asked what justification there was for it", and calls upon the Government to come out in the
open and announce forthwith to the country when the first cutback in the national superannua-
tion scheme can be expected. This motion seeks a discussion of the cost and desirability of the
national superannuation scheme, which was introduced by the present Government with so
much trumpeting about its concern for the welfare of certain sections of the community,
while at the same time its members were attacking the Labour Administration for its
handling of the economy.
I want to put these two together and examine them in the light of the economic
situation, and to refer the facts that emerge to one or two members on the other side, who
have already indicated that they, too, are concerned about whether the country can afford
the cost of the scheme. I want to start off from the straight, logical assertion that, because the
Minister of Social Welfare claims that all those who are receiving national superannuation
are at least as well off as they were under the former age benefit or universal superannuation
and because more people are in the superannuation scheme than were in the other two
combined, it is clear that the system is costing significantly more than the earlier ones.
Mr McLay: Are you saying it is too much?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am saying that the cost, in our circumstances, is far too much. I
refer the member for Birkenhead to others of his own party who have expressed concern,
and ask him where he stands in this debate, because we have been promised that the amount
for this programme will be increased next year. According to the estimates, superannuation
is costing $930 million gross. That represents 64 percent of the total Social Welfare vote. We
have heard a little about the billion-dollar Minister. The Social Welfare vote now stands at
over $1.5 billion, but the increase has gone to people who do not really need it. There are
much higher priorities for this expenditure, but the Government has blatantly sought to
influence the electors by its social welfare policy. It has not sought to meet the needs of social
welfare recipients.
I contrast this figure of 64 percent of the present Social Welfare vote with the amount
spent in the last financial year, when we had three systems, two for part of the year and one
for the rest. Under that arrangement, the total of the three benefits amounted to less than 56
percent of the total Social Welfare vote. In the preceding financial year, when we had only
the age benefit, which was subject to a means test, and universal superannuation, payable at
65 without a means test, the two benefits represented 54 percent of the total social welfare
expenditure. So the figures for those years reveal a very significant shift in both total
expenditure on social welfare and the proportion going to recipients other than those over 60
years of age.
Many people need greater consideration than they have received from the present
Government, but this Government, quite knowingly, has shifted the emphasis of its social
welfare programme, and in doing so has put a severe strain on our economic system. This
concern has been expressed by the member for Hamilton West in the statement given in this
motion. It has also been expressed by the Associate Minister of Finance, who has called
upon everyone to live within his income, but who is part of a Government that has quite
deliberately increased the income of a section of the population that already has an adequate
income. His call for those people to live within their income does not mean very much; it
rankles with other sections of the community who have to pay the taxes to pay these extra
benefits, and it rankles with those whose income is such that it is not adequate to meet their
needs.
The problem will grow. The member for Raglan referred to it last night. I want to allude
not to that debate, but simply to the fact that she expressed her concern, which is that,
against the known demographic trends, there will be an increasing burden on income
producers to satisfy the payments that are to be made at the level of 80 percent of the
average wage after next year. That increase will add about $153 million to the gross cost. It is
$930 million this year, allowing for inflation at the present rate, which will add $144 million,
allowing for the increase from 70 percent to 80 percent, which will add $153 million, and
allowing something for the additional cost arising from the greater numbers of people who
will be in the 60-year age group next year, we arrive at the figure of an extra $310 million
gross. In all, $1,240 million will be required for that scheme.
Hon. G. F. Gair: Gross.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: That is the gross figure. That must concern a Government that
pretends to have the secret of economic management, because it will have a disastrous
effect. Either it will increase taxes or it will prevent the reduction in tax rates, consequent


## p. 2276 (#732) ###########################################

2276
17 August
Discussion of Motions
upon inflation, that the people of this country are entitled to consider their due. Inflation is
robbing the wage earner, but it has no effect on those who already pay the maximum rate of
tax; they receive more money, but they pay the same rate of taxation on it. However, it does
push up the rates of tax of wage earners below the maximum level of taxation liability at
present. Worse than that, it transfers from the people who need the money to those who do
not a significant income even in net terms, and that money is available and is widely used on
overseas travel and imported items, which the country has trouble in paying for. Also, the
general pressure of inflation gives more money to those people who can satisfy their needs,
and in spending it they are able to push prices up against the competition of the others. For a
Government whose members pretend to know something about economic management, this
shows the depth of their ignorance. The Government is taxing the producer; it is denying
him relief in times of inflation, it is using the inflationary results of that policy to finance its
superannuation scheme, and it is transferring money to people who already have an
adequate income. Instead of spending it on essentials, those people spend it on luxuries, a
part of which is imported items.
The member for Hamilton West, perhaps alone of his colleagues on that side, saw these
effects. I commend him for speaking up, but I would commend him much more if he did
something more within his own party caucus to block further development before it is too
late. This tragedy need not be compounded if the Government comes to its senses before the
next Budget-or will it pull a stunt and have this in the Budget but have the payment date
later, and then come back with extra taxation, in the hope that it will have won the election
on the basis of keeping its promise? There is a stunt in the making. The Government knows
that it cannot finance its promise. It certainly does not want to risk the electoral consequ-
ences of breaking its promise. Therefore, the stunt lies in making provision in the Budget,
but not actually making the payment until just before the election. That is the most likely
answer. I call on those members opposite who have expressed concern to do something
about it—those who represent areas with young people. They should speak for the young
people, instead of allowing this economic debacle to go a stage further.
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central): Let me quickly disabuse the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition of any thought of a stunt in the making by the National Government. That might
well have been more appropriate to the former Labour Administration. National superannu-
ation will be fully implemented in August 1978-that is the assurance I give the honourable
member and the people. It is obvious from the sting in the tail of this motion, and the
contribution made by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, that if a Labour Government
were returned to power national superannuation would be scrapped. The Deputy Leader of
the Opposition observed that the Government is treating aged people too well. He wants the
Government to get his party off the hook, because it is obvious that changes would be made
under a Labour Government-and Government members are not prepared to oblige. The
means test, or, as one dear soul in my electorate called it, the very mean test-would be
reintroduced by a Labour Government.
Let us cast our minds back to the discredited New Zealand superannuation scheme
introduced by the Labour Government in 1974. All salary and wage earners were compelled
to join that scheme unless they were already contributing to an approved alternative private
scheme, and would have been obliged to make contributions every pay day for the rest of
their working lives. Only those people of 55 years of age or over were exempted.
Mr Rogers: It was a good scheme.
Mr COMBER: The intellectual giant of the Labour Party says it was a good scheme. I
invite him to tell us whether it would be reintroduced if a Labour Government were returned
to office. Let us look at Labour's scheme, and take the case of a man who started work in
1933. Under Labour's scheme, after 40 years he could have expected to receive the
magnificent sum of $700 a year, which is $13.46 a week. Let us also look at some of the
failings of the Labour scheme. In contrast, national superannuation does not require people
to be known by a number, it does not require individual employment dossiers to be kept by
the Government, and it does not necessitate the creation of a new army of civil servants. It
does not lock people into a scheme for life, and does not concentrate sweeping economic
powers in the hands of the Government, or commit nationalisation of industry by stealth.
After 11 years, $4 billion would have been held in a fund controlled by the Government.
Under national superannuation, people can retire at the age of 60 without a reduction in
their pension, or they may continue to work if they wish.
The Labour Government's scheme discriminated against women, yet the member for
Onehunga says that it was a good scheme. I wonder what the reaction would be if he told a


## p. 2277 (#733) ###########################################

17 August
2277
Discussion of Motions
campaign meeting that a scheme that locked out women was a good scheme.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition also carefully ignored the cost of Labour's
compulsory superannuation scheme. If the scheme had still been in operation it is estimated
that about 500 000 wage and salary earners would have been paying into the New Zealand
superannuation scheme. Based on contributions of 2.5 percent from the employee and 2.5
percent from the employer for the period from 1 April 1977 to 31 March 1978, it is estimated
that $168 million would have been paid into Labour's scheme; yet, the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition has the temerity to talk about the cost of national superannuation. Let us have a
look at it. This year, national superannuation is costing $905 million, and when $140 million
of tax deducted at source is taken away from that figure, the net cost is $765 million. The age
benefit plus universal superannuation amounted to $625 million, and tax withheld was $25
million, giving a total of $600 million. The additional cost this year through the Consolidated
Revenue Account is $165 million, which is less than 2.5 percent of Government expenditure.
When that is compared to the $168 million that was being taken under the Labour scheme, it
does not bear scrutiny.
I am sure that everybody remembers the prophecies of gloom that were spread by the
present Leader of the Opposition in 1975. He said that national superannuation would cost
more, but it has been introduced and has not required a change in the tax rates. The
Government is still working with the Labour Government's tax rates, yet in the Budget $85
million has been given to the people on lower incomes. The Leader of the Opposition has
said that a Labour Government would restructure the tax rates, but I do not know how it
would do so. However, it has come through loudly and clearly that, if Labour were returned
to the Treasury benches, national superannuation would be scrapped. I wonder if a Labour
Government would introduce a capital gains tax, or bring back an income test.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: Both.
Mr COMBER: I think it would, but Opposition members are silent on that. I invite the
next Opposition speaker to rebut it. Would a Labour Government, if ever there were such
an animal again, introduce a funded superannuation scheme that locked out women, and
would the means test be brought back? These are the questions to which answers are sought,
because a lot of questions are going begging at the moment.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): This motion records the doubts expressed by the member for
Hamilton West as to whether the country can afford to pay superannuation to people who
are still working. That is the matter before the House, not the issue of whether the Labour
Party would lock women out. I remind the House that this year national superannuation will
require $930 million from the Social Welfare vote, a sum that equals 64 percent of the total
expenditure estimated for that department. The net figure is about $132 million less. If one
postulates what will happen when the Utopia arrives and beneficiaries are paid 80 percent of
the average weekly wage, the gross cost will be $1,240 million a year. The test I put to
members opposite is not whether I relate that in terms of the national economic capacity, but
whether the House is content to allow a huge proportion of social welfare expenditure to
obscure the very real needs in other fields of social welfare.
Mr Friedlander: Aren't the pensioners better off?
Mr LANGE: Will the House persist with a policy that would appeal to the member for
New Plymouth, who would support a policy only if it won him a vote? He would not
recognise that the Government promised to increase the benefit for children from $1.25. The
Government is quick to jump and to say that by August next year 80 percent will be the
criterion on which national superannuation will be apportioned. I should like to hear a
statement from the Minister of Social Welfare about when the $1.25 benefit will increase.
The benefit will go up on 28 November 1978. I should like to hear a statement from the
Minister of Social Welfare about when the people on the widow's benefit may be able to earn
a reasonable sum, as promised in the manifesto. That cannot be done, because the
Government needs to tax those people to pay for national superannuation.
Why should the proportion of social welfare money spent on persons 60 years of age and
over be 64 percent, as against 55 percent in 1976-77 and 54 percent in 1975-76? That
represents a jump of 10 percent in the proportion of the Social Welfare vote, to the exclusion
of the people in the community who do not have votes, who do not care about direct credits,
and who are the sons and daughters of people who receive the domestic purposes benefit,
which the Minister proposes to cut. He has said that the cut in the domestic purposes benefit
will save $4 million a year, but he is embarking on a programme to spend $1,240 million to
support those who are able to work, some of whom hold office under the Crown as judges,
and are people in high constitutional authority in New Zealand.


## p. 2278 (#734) ###########################################

2278
17 August
Discussion of Motions
It comes back to a matter of political honesty. The pensioner is the person to whom the
Government was beholden. Some pensioners are holding offices such as Governor-General,
and will be better off, but the people on the domestic purposes benefit will be worse off. The
people who were promised an increase of $1.25 a week in the benefit for their status as the
children of a beneficiary have no hope, because they belong to a class of persons who are
silent in the face of a Government that would spend all its money to buy a vote, without
regard to social welfare priorities. Before the Government embarks on further expansions, it
should examine whether some proportion ought to be introduced into the Social Welfare
vote, so that the people who are not represented by vigorous pressure groups, the people
who do not have fixed income associations, and the people who are queing up at the doors of
the children and young persons court might receive the relief the Government should give
them.
Mr LUXTON (Piako): The member for Mangere asked if the Government could sustain
the benefits that are being paid to people who are still working. The simple answer is that the
Government can sustain these benefits. That is why the National Government had national
superannuation as a policy. The 1975-76 report of the New Zealand Institute of Economic
Research stated that Government transfers for social welfare were $846 million, or 7.8
percent of the gross national product. That meant that 7.8c of every dollar of gross national
product was spent by the Government on social welfare benefits.
I should like to update that position to indicate how easily the Government can fulfil its
election policy. Although it did not have the benefit of the Budget, the 1977 June quarter
report of the Institute of Economic Research estimated that $1,345 million would be needed
for Government transfers for social welfare. The institute's estimate of the gross national
product for this year was $14,260 million, and the Government transfers for social welfare
represent 9.4 percent of the gross national product. Because members have the benefit of the
Budget, they know that actual Government transfers will be $1,392 million, or 9.8 percent of
the gross national product. That means 9.8c of every dollar of the gross national product. It
must be recognised that this item is tax deductible, so the figure is reduced to 8.8 percent, or
8.8c in every dollar of the gross national product.
The elderly are entitled to national superannuation. With this small transfer, everyone
can look forward to national superannuation from the age of 60. Of the 371 000 beneficiaries
at 31 March 1977, 112 000 had received universal superannuation, and 195 000 had received
the age benefit, so there were fewer than 65 000 additional beneficiaries. What has been lost
sight of is that persons aged 60 and over are encouraged to remain at work and to contribute
to the economy. We all know that many hundreds of people aged 60 years had reduced their
assets so that they could receive the age benefit. The country will benefit from the additional
wealth of the people who are not encouraged to stop working because they are 60 years of
age. They will be active in the work force, and will pay taxes and contribute to the economy.
National superannuation is a very good system. During the 3 years of the Labour Govern-
ment, the purchasing power of savings was eroded by 43 percent, and no person could
prepare for old age with inflation of that rate. The country must see that the elderly are
adequately provided for in the future, and national superannuation is doing just that.
The time allowed for discussion of the motion having expired, the motion lapsed.
Taxation Changes
Miss DEWE (Lyttelton): I move, That this House congratulates the Government on the
taxation changes which will take effect from 1 October 1977, so that a family man with
dependent wife and child under 5, and whose income is only an average ordinary-time wage of
$129.52, will have his tax reduced to $17.66 or 13.6 percent of that wage, compared to $30.66 or
23.7 percent, which he would have been paying on the tax rates levied by the Labour
Government when in office, and in addition this man would have had to pay a further $3.24
being his compulsory contribution to the Labour superannuation scheme, and this would have
brought his total deductions to $33.90 or 26 percent of those wages.
The motion points out the changes that have been implemented by the Government in
the taxation system and the taxation rates that will affect the single-income family, and more
particularly those who have a dependent child or children under the age of 5. The reductions
instituted by the Government take effect from 1 October this year, and will reduce
considerably the percentage of pay that will go in tax. The Government recognises the
special need of the single-income family with young children. Those families will gain
considerable tax savings. The tax paid by an average man on the average ordinary-time wage


## p. 2279 (#735) ###########################################

17 August
2279
Discussion of Motions
of $129.52 a week will be reduced to 13.6 percent. If the Labour Government had stayed in
power and continued to extract contributions to its superannuation scheme, his taxes would
have amounted to 26 percent. Fortunately the New Zealand superannuation scheme has
been buried. It amounted to an additional tax on each citizen.
From 1 October a person on the very low wage of $82.63 a week will pay no tax, a
remarkable advance. With the implementation of these deductions and rebates, a man
earning up to $150 a week can claim $13 a week rebate if he has a dependent wife and a child
under 5—and I point out that his annual income is $7,800.
I have been intrigued of late to listen to Labour's financial whizz-kids, the member for
Manukau, the Leader of the Opposition, and the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, talking
very loudly and constantly about the need to restructure the tax system. This morning on
"Morning Report" I heard the Leader of the Opposition commenting on recent tax changes
in Australia. He spoke of the three-tier system over there, and said it seemed to be much
simpler. He also said he was darned sure that New Zealanders did not understand our
present tax system. I remind him that our tax system was instituted by the Labour
Government; so if the Leader of the Opposition and his colleagues do not understand it, how
on earth can the public be expected to understand it?
This Government is trying to help the people, and to change the system. The Leader of
the Opposition, the Deputy Leader of the Opposition, and the member for Manukau have
talked about restructuring. This is all very vague, and all very nice sounding, but I wonder
what they mean by restructuring. It is easy to talk about, but let us get down to tin-tacks.
Does it mean a reduction in tax? For tax to be reduced there must be growth in the economy,
and there must also be money to spare coming in. The Labour Government's record on
saving money has not been good. It was magnificent at spending. We have only to look at
Government spending while Labour was in office. In 1973, Government expenditure in
relation to the gross national product was about 30 percent; by 1975 it had risen to 42
percent. The Labour Government was great on saving, but it was much greater on spending.
Let us look at the deficit before borrowing, and the internal deficit.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: You wait until you see this year's!
Miss DEWE: It will be nowhere near as bad. There will be no opportunity for it to be of
the magnitude of the deficit under the Labour Government. In 1975, when the National
Government took office, Treasury predicted that for the year ended 31 March 1976 there
would be an internal deficit of $1,200 million. With 3 months to spare the National
Government reduced the deficit to $1,000 million. Treasury predicted a $1,400 million
deficit for the year ended March 1977, and the National Government managed to reduce it
to $500 million. That is a marvellous record of expenditure control. As a result, we have had
a certain amount of room in which to manoeuvre on taxation. The Labour Government did
not, and if the people are ever unfortunate enough to have a Labour Government in power
again it still will not have room to manoeuvre.
Labour cannot or will not reduce spending. Money slips through the fingers of a Labour
Government like water, so where would members opposite get the money to pay for
restructuring if by restructuring they mean reduction? They changed the tax rates in 1975,
and increased the maximum tax for those with higher incomes, who then paid more than
they had ever paid before. Do they have in mind an extension of the policy of making those
on higher incomes pay the most, pay the hardest, and dig deepest? If this restructuring does
mean reduction, will it be paid for by those who have the greatest interest and greatest
investment in the country? Is that what restructuring means? Or does it mean something
else? Does it mean altering the scale rates for companies? Labour members do not like
companies or the self-employed because they make things called profits. The Labour
Government always spoke about profits as if they were unpleasant and unpalatable. Are the
companies to bear the cost of the restructuring because they make profits? Is the restructur-
ing to be up or down, or is it just to be a changed direction of tax collection?
The member for Roskill has been talking about indirect taxation. We all know it raises
the consumer price index, and that wage increases are geared to the consumer price index.
Or does it mean a change to a wealth tax or a capital gains tax? The Deputy Leader of the
Opposition is on record in the New Zealand Herald of 2 February as talking about the
Labour Party's being convinced that there must be a radical rethinking of the taxation
structure. He was talking about the relative tax burdens of income earners and property
owners. He said that the absence of a capital gains tax and the relative weakness of land tax
meant that those who owned property carried a far lighter burden than the ordinary wage
and salary earners. Does the Labour Party not know that almost every New Zealand citizen


## p. 2280 (#736) ###########################################

2280
17 August
Discussion of Motions
is a property owner, with a house and a car? All these elements are involved in any
assessment of a capital gains or wealth tax. Members opposite should think again about what
they mean by restructuring taxation. It is about time we asked them to explain in detail
precisely what they have in mind when they talk about restructuring the tax system.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau): In many ways it was tragic to listen to the member
for Lyttelton this afternoon. At a time when this country requires above all leadership and
an honest approach from its politicians, the member for Lyttelton uses totally misleading and
invalid comparisons of wages and taxation. The figures used by the member are for a male
average weekly wage of $129.52 under both the National and the Labour Governments.
Because the cost of living was much lower under Labour the average wage was also lower,
yet people were substantially better off than they are today. The example used by the
member fails miserably in its attempt to blame the Labour Government for the National
Government's failure to adjust the tax rates, because National's high inflation policy makes
the 1975 tax rates outdated.
The motion uses the best possible example the National Government can use. However,
less than 10 percent of all families will fall into the category of the example used by the
member for Lyttelton. All others on the average weekly wage-in other words, 90 percent of
families are already paying more tax today under the National Government than they did
under the Labour Government.
In any case, the rebates introduced in the Budget have given only temporary respite. By
the time the person receiving $129.52, and lucky enough to receive in full both rebates, has
increased his income to $136, he will again be paying more tax than he paid under the
Labour Government. Given the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research predictions
on wages and price increases, even those who benefit most from the rebates will be back
below the October 1975 purchasing-power position by January 1978; so any relief given in
the Budget by way of family rebates is very temporary indeed. Families on the average wage
who do not qualify for the rebates-and that is most families-now find that in terms of
purchasing power they are at least $9 worse off than they were in October 1975. The reason
for that is clearly their increased taxation burden—at least $10 a week extra.
As a nation we are indeed at the economic crossroads. We seem to have no idea at all
where we are going, either as individuals or as a nation, and we are in no shape to face the
biggest challenge in our history. The blame lies squarely with the present Government's
failure to create any real understanding within New Zealand of our economic performance.
The totally misleading and false examples used by the member for Lyttelton are of no help
whatsoever in promoting a better understanding within the community of New Zealand's
economic performance. The member would do more for her cause if she started to be a lot
more honest with the electorate at large.
Mr Comber: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. I reluctantly raise the point that
earlier the member for Manukau made an observation directed towards the member for
Lyttelton in which I think he said something about "totally misleading". I let that remark go,
but I think his expression "dishonest" in reference to the member for Lyttelton should not
go unchallenged, and I invite you to rule on it.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: I was listening carefully to the member for Manukau. I
thought he was skating fairly close to the borderline of what is acceptable, but I did not think
he crossed it. He said he hoped that the honourable member for Lyttelton would be more
honest with the electorate-or words to that effect. He did not say that the honourable
member was not honest, or was dishonest, but that he hoped she would be more honest. It is
fairly close, but it is not unacceptable.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: The fact is that we are saddled with an economic structure that
simply does not work for us. I have heard it said that New Zealanders are underpaid,
overtaxed, and underworked-and I believe that is true. We are clinging to structures that
are real disincentives to production and development. We have a disincentive economy, and
if we are to break out of it we will have to make positive use of all the economic weapons that
the Government and society have under their control, and we will have to stop fiddling as the
National Government did in its last Budget. Laws, taxation, economic policies, and social
welfare systems should all be used positively to motivate people, as well as to protect them;
to provide incentives and challenge, as well as stability. There is no challenge and no
incentive in the present taxation structure.
Some of the key changes that must be made if we are to get New Zealand on the road
again are in the area of taxation. Taxation should not be seen as a negative influence, simply
a means of raising Government revenue; it should be used properly. If it is used properly it


## p. 2281 (#737) ###########################################

17 August
2281
Discussion of Motions
can be a powerful basic influence on economic and social policy. The New Zealand tax base
is comparatively small, relying heavily on direct taxation and personal income taxation. The
impact of inflation has meant a high marginal tax rate in the lower and middle income
groups. Families that do not qualify for the Budget rebates are now paying about $10 more
than they were paying 18 months ago—and the member for Lyttelton cannot get round that.
Because non-taxable spending power is connected with the ownership of capital, the
present system perpetuates inequality. Overall it is negative, crippling, and totally unfair in
its impact on wealth distribution. We can talk until we are blue in the face about the
desperate economic plight of the country-and it is a desperate situation-but unless
ordinary families can see something in their hands for greater effort they will not respond.
Taxation reforms will not necessarily mean less taxation overall because, unless we abandon
entire programmes, tax revenue must be maintained. We must widen the tax base, and shift
the emphasis from direct taxation to draw on untapped resources.
Miss Dewe: What does that mean?
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: Is the member going to give me an extension of time? There
must be basic changes in all areas. The two guiding principles of personal taxation are that it
should vary with income and family responsibility, and that it should bear a direct
relationship to effort. Those principles have been lost in our present structure, where the
crippling marginal rates at the lower and middle income levels have literally forced
thousands of people into a poverty trap. The member for Lyttelton also mentioned a new
factor in any reconstruction of taxation and economic policy-the impact of the new
superannuation scheme introduced by the National Government. Next year the scheme will
cost $1,200 million, and much of that money will go into the hands of people who are already
well off. Our population is increasingly weighted in the older group, with a young work force
that will expand only slowly after 1985, while the number of people over 60 will increase
dramatically.
Mr McLAY (Birkenhead): I wonder how many people remember the headlines in the
National Business Review last year-"Roger fails at sums." He has managed to do it again,
as I will demonstrate quite irrefutably in a moment. It does not surprise me that the member
for Manukau should take part in the debate today. This week he is playing at being taxation
spokesman. He says he has some proposals for tax reform. We should remember broadcast-
ing, Labour's superannuation, the green paper on transport, housing, and the baby bonus;
everything the member for Manukau has touched has turned to dross. I wonder why he
didn't include his tax ideas with all the other bright ideas he seemed to have between 1973
and 1975. I warn those of his colleagues who might be fooled by some of his latest ideas to
beware of Greeks bearing gifts.
This motion applauds the recent tax measures taken by the Government, measures that
will be of direct assistance to every family with at least one child under the age of 10 years,
and with an income of up to $240 a week-certainly well into that middle-income group we
hear so much about. In my Birkenhead electorate 5000 people-20 percent of the total
population of the electorate, not the 10 percent suggested by the member for Manukau-will
receive some form of tax rebate as a result of these measures. I was shocked to hear the
member for Manukau and other Labour members suggesting that this rebate will be of no
benefit to people on the lower incomes.
The member for Lyttelton spoke of a family with an income of just under $130 a week. I
give the example of a married man with one child, and earning the minimum adult wage. In
October 1975-and guess which Government was in office then-this man was earning
$57.16 a week. After paying $5.84 a week tax, with no rebate, he took home $51.32. By
October 1976 the minimum adult wage had increased to $60.76 a week. As a result of the
National Government's first Budget that man was entitled to a young family tax rebate,
which meant he paid only 73c a week in tax. That gave him a substantial net increase. It is
estimated that by October 1977 the minimum wage will be $64.41 a week. How much will the
minimum wage earner pay in tax? He will not pay the $5.84 he paid under the Labour
Government; he will not even pay the 73c he had to pay last year under the National
Government; he will pay no tax at all. In other words, within 2 years he is now 25 percent
better off than he was under the Labour Government.
The member for Manukau claims that that man is worse off because his purchasing
power has dropped. We should look at that proposition for a moment. If that man had
wanted to save to buy a colour television set in October 1975 he would have had to work for
734 hours. By October of this year he will be able to buy that set after working 640 hours,
which is a very substantial improvement. If that same man wanted to buy a house in October


## p. 2282 (#738) ###########################################

2282
17 August
Discussion of Motions
1975-and we all remember what the member for Manukau did to housing prices--he would
have had to work for 19 920 hours. In October of this year he will have to work for only
18 103 hours-an improvement of just under 10 percent. The recent measures announced by
the Government give beneficial assistance to all families with an income of up to $240 a
week, and with a child under 10 years of age. Many people will benefit from those tax
exemptions, and will be very grateful to the National Government. They will be asking the
Opposition why the Labour Government did not do something similar between 1973 and
1975.
Dr WALL (Porirua): It would be nice if we were all just figures on a piece of paper. I am
sure the National Government would stay in power indefinitely if that were so, because there
would be no demands from families, the children would not grow up, and the finance
provided by the Government would help them cope. However, we are dealing with the real
world, in which the expense of bringing up children increases as they grow older. What has
the National Government done? It has provided tax relief, such as it is, for families with
young children. As the children grow older and expenses increase, that tax relief is taken off.
I do not know whether that was intentional cruelty to make the difficulties of those with the
most expense greater, or whether it was just accidental.
I wonder if members opposite with a cost accountant's background talked to some real
people, or just looked at books? They should talk to some of the families in their
electorates—if they know any. Perhaps they could go to the head teachers of the schools and
ask to be introduced to the parents of teenagers. They could tell those families the same
nonsense they have been parading this afternoon in the House-that families are better off
now than they were in 1975, and that their children are easier to provide for now than they
were then.
I challenge any member opposite who is talking that kind of nonsense to name one small
group, even a minute percentage of the population, that might be temporarily better off, and
to face an audience comprised of parents to see if the figures mentioned will stand up to the
realities of the cost of bringing up a family. The audience could be the judge. It is not as
though the Government did not know about such costs, even if it cared. Long before the
Budget was written a former National Party candidate, who was in charge of the social
welfare commission, drew the attention of the House and the Government to the fact that
the heaviest expenditure in bringing up a family occurred as the children grew older. That is
obvious to those of us who have brought up children, but public attention was drawn to the
need. The Government said it would give relief to families with children up to the age of 10
years. I suppose that is one of the Government's progressive policies. Parents are supposed
to send the kids out to work. Will we see a lowering of the school leaving age to fit in with the
Government's tax provisions?
An Hon. Member: The member is being ridiculous.
Dr WALL: Not as ridiculous as the Government, which has given tax relief to those
families whose expenses are low, and taxed those families whose expenses are high. The
member accuses me of being absurd, but he should talk to any mother or father, and ask who
is being absurd. What is the answer to be when the Government says there will be no tax
relief for those families with older children?
The hour set down for the suspension of the sitting having arrived, the motion lapsed.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
APPROPRIATION BILL-FINANCIAL STATEMENT
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): Last night, in replying to the Budget
debate, I very carefully went through the National Party's short-term economic strategy,
which we presented to the people at election time. I read the whole of it, item by item, and I
pointed out that, in two Budgets and a little over 18 months, we had carried out the whole of
it-not one broken promise in the lot. I also said that the only criticism coming from the
dispirited lot on the other side of the House these days is criticism of income tax. We had it
again today outside the House from the Leader of the Opposition, apparently oblivious of
the fact that the tax tables we are using are his, the Labour Government's tax tables. The
only alterations we have made are at the bottom end of the scale, to give relief to one-income
families on low incomes. We even heard the Leader of the Opposition today saying that he
could not understand the tables, and he was the Minister of Finance who brought them in.
No wonder Labour members are on the other side of the House, and no wonder they will


## p. 2283 (#739) ###########################################

17 August
2283
Civil List Amendment Bill
stay there.
Bill read a second time.
CIVIL LIST AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I move, That this Bill be now read a third
time.
Bill read a third time.
GOVERNMENT LIFE INSURANCE AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister in Charge of the Government Life Insurance Office): I
move, That this Bill be now read a third time.
Bill read a third time.
NATIONAL HOUSING COMMISSION AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): I move, That this Bill be now read a
third time.
Bill read a third time.
SECURITIES TRANSFER BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That this Bill be now read a third
time.
Bill read a third time.
time.
TRUSTEE AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That this Bill be now read a third
Bill read a third time.
LEGISLATURE AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I move, That this Bill be now read a
second time. The Bill gives statutory sanction to two well established practices of the House.
Clause 2(1) provides that the House may hold over Bills and other business from one session
to the next, even though a general election takes place between those sessions. Because the
practice of holding over can be seen as ignoring the common law effects of a prorogation or
dissolution, it is desirable that the position should be clarified by giving the House a statutory
power, rather than rely on Standing Order 74. Clause 2(2) provides the format by which an
outgoing Parliament can ensure that business held over will be considered by members of the
newly elected House in the recess following a general election. There is nothing new in this
practice, but the present situation is unsatisfactory. Neither the committees nor their
witnesses are protected by privilege. This matter is now rectified by clause 2(3), which
confers on any committee meeting before the new Parliament meets the powers and
privileges of a regular select committee.
I should clear up any misunderstanding about subclause (4). It does not, as some
members appear to have thought when the Bill was introduced, allow a member to sit or vote
either in the House or on a select committee before he has been sworn in. What it does is
remove any doubt about the right of a member to sit on one of these inchoate committees
before taking the oath. There is no question of nullifying the requirement of section 46 of the
Constitution Act.
Clause 3 simply puts the matter beyond doubt, just in case a latter-day Mr Simpson has
any ideas of challenging the validity of an Act which, when in Bill form, was held over.
Interested members may care to refer to the 1955 volume of New Zealand Law Reports to
read about Mr Simpson's challenge to the valid existence of Parliament itself.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): The main purpose, indeed the sole purpose, of
the Bill is to overcome the difficulties in which the Government has found itself by having


## p. 2284 (#740) ###########################################

2284
17 August
Legislature Amendment Bill
newly elected members serve on committees before they have taken the oath, which they are
required to do by our Constitution Act. Objection has been taken to that on previous
occasions, and sundry devices have been adopted to overcome the difficulty in a temporary
kind of way. The effects of these were to have a member serve as a member of a committee
without having taken the oath. The taking of the oath is not just a symbolic matter. It goes
really to the roots of a person's right to sit and act as a member of Parliament. I quote from
the current version of Erskine May to show just how significantly the matter is dealt with in
Westminster, and I read from page 270 of the nineteenth edition:
"By the Acts (of several different statutes going back through many years) severe
penalties and disabilities were inflicted upon any Member of either House who sat or voted
without having taken the oath. By the Parliamentary Oaths Act 1866, any Peer voting by
himself or his proxy, or sitting in the House of Peers without having taken the oath, is
subject, for every such offence, to a penalty of £500; and any member of the House of
Commons who votes as such, or sits during any debate after the Speaker has been chosen,
without having taken the oath, is subject to the same penalty, and his seat is also vacated in
the same manner as if he were dead. These penalties can be recovered by the suit of the
Crown alone. When Peers or Members have neglected to take the oaths from haste,
accident, or inadvertence, Acts of indemnity have been passed to relieve them from the
consequences of their neglect. In the Commons, however, it is necessary to move a new writ
immediately the omission is discovered, as the Member's seat is vacated."
So, as I say, referring to that eminent authority the taking of an oath is by no means just
a formality, but a requirement that must be discharged before a person sits in the House. In
Westminster, if he does so in the absence of having attended to that requirement, then his
seat is liable to be vacated. The remedy suggested in the earlier stage of the introduction of
the Bill was that a simple device and procedure was open to any Government, and that
would be for the summoning of Parliament very shortly after an election so that members
could be sworn in. There is no difficulty whatsoever in arranging that, and rather than adopt
this device to overcome what is simply a procedural difficulty I strongly recommend that that
procedure be adopted. Even if the session were only a formality, simply for the sake of
swearing in a member, it could be held, and it would add to the dignity of Parliament if that
procedure were followed instead of having a person who is only half a member entitled to act
as a member of a committee but not entitled to act in the fullness of his responsibilities as a
member of Parliament. For that reason, I think the Bill provides for a misconceived manner
of overcoming a self-imposed difficulty.
In the introduction debate I mentioned one other consequence of the move. It will
ensure that anything done by an unsworn member in a committee will not expose him to any
kind of penalties, and particularly it will afford him the protection and absolute privilege of
members of Parliament for words said not only in the House but also as a member of a
committee. It is unlikely, but possible, that some unsworn member who is a member of a
committee may have said something that would expose him to some kind of claim. I suggest
that clause 2(3) should provide for the retrospective operation of the Bill. As it stands now,
"Every such committee shall have, subject to the terms of any resolution under subsection
(2) of this section, the privileges, immunities, and powers of a select committee of the House
of Representatives, and shall be deemed to be a committee of the House of Representa-
tives".
I have suggested before, and I put it forward again for the Government's consideration,
that the following phrase should be added: "and shall always be deemed to have been a
committee of the House of Representatives". In that way the proceedings of those
irregularly constituted committees would be perfected by giving members of the committees
the protection members of Parliament and committees of the House, as well as the House
itself, enjoy in that regard. I believe it is a meritorious suggestion, and one the Government
might well take into account before the Bill reaches the Committee stage.
Dr WALL (Porirua): I am delighted that this Bill is before the House, but I consider it a
somewhat inappropriate measure as it raises all sorts of anomalies and will not correct those
it seeks to correct. It will enable people to enjoy the privileges of being members of
Parliament when in fact they are not members of Parliament; it will give people the
responsibilities of members of Parliament when they have not been sworn in as members.
That raises a very difficult problem: why persist with the formality of swearing in members of
Parliament? If, as is assumed under our Standing Orders and all our procedures, committees
are in fact parts of the House, why should particular significance be attached to the
attendance at one part of the House and not at another? Following the passage of the Bill,


## p. 2285 (#741) ###########################################

17 August
2285
Legislature Amendment Bill
presumably one will be able to take part validly in the proceedings of the House while
attending the hearings of a select committee, but on the same day and under the same
qualifications one will not be able to attend in another part of the House, this Chamber.
Although the Bill has obviously been introduced for the purpose of removing the
possibility of a future anomalous situation, in fact it will not do so. It may remove half an
anomaly, but that leaves in its trail another anomaly that is just as great as the one that will
be corrected. You will recall, Mr Speaker, that last year I drew the attention of the House to
the situation that has prompted the drafting of this Bill. Many members claimed that the
questions I raised on those occasions were of no importance whatever, that I was merely
pinpricking, being difficult, and trying to embarrass the Government by raising a point that
had no substance. If that was the position, I ask the Minister in charge of the Bill to explain
why the Bill has been introduced.
I am sure you will recall the words used last year with considerable accuracy, Mr
Speaker. At that time I drew the attention of the House to the difficulties arising because of
the Government's attitudes and actions, and the problems were not resolved despite the
rulings given. Although the procedure the Government now proposes may have some value
if the provisions of the Bill are made retrospective to cover the Government's ultra vires
actions last year, the proper procedure to adopt is the one recommended by the member for
Henderson: the Government should ensure that such a situation does not arise by calling the
House together soon after an election and having members properly sworn in according to
the correct forms laid down by our Standing Orders.
I realise that some slightly different procedures from those customarily used in opening
sessions of Parliament might be necessary, but that would be a very much tidier and more
constitutional procedure than the adoption of the compromise that the Bill now before the
House will inevitably bring about. Because it is a compromise it will not provide for an
effective constitutional situation. As I have pointed out, only half the existing anomaly will
be removed, and another anomaly will be created. In the long run, I do not believe the
provisions in the Bill will serve the purposes of the House. The Government refused to
recognise the problems that arose last year. The Bill is an attempt to prevent future similar
problems, but they would be overcome very much better if the suggestion made by the
member for Henderson were adopted. In that way the Government could ensure the proper
and responsible conduct of the affairs of the House, particularly in the time before the first
meeting of Parliament after a general election.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): It is probably a pity to prick the balloon
of the member for Porirua, who is wallowing in self-satisfaction. The plain fact of the matter
is that he was pinpricking last year, and trying to be difficult. It is also a plain fact that the
practice to which he took exception had been the habit in the House for a long, long time
before he started his pinpricking. Indeed, the first occasion that came to my notice—and I
was not prepared to pinprick at the time-concerned the member for Sydenham, in the time
of the former Labour Government. The member for Porirua was not disposed to pinprick
that either, or to be difficult, because he was a Government back-bencher. The Government
has brought in a Bill, and proposes to pass it. Perhaps the member for Porirua will then
pinprick and be difficult on another matter. Most of us believe we are here for a rather more
important purpose.
Bill read a second time.
TRUSTEE SAVINGS BANKS AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I move, That this Bill be now read a
second time. Its purpose is to enable trustee savings banks to implement fully the Budget
measures allowing them freedom to set the structure of and the interest rates on their
investment and other term deposit accounts. These measures represent a further develop-
ment in the flexible interest rate policy introduced in March 1976. This policy is designed to
strengthen the role of the major financial intermediaries, and thus to improve the efficiency
of the financial system so that it may make its contribution to an improved allocation of
resources. It will also enable the Government to operate a more effective monetary policy.
Before the Budget, the savings banks were the only remaining major institutions still
subject to full interest rate regulation. They have been at an increasing disadvantage with
other deposit-taking institutions, which are free to set their own rates, and in particular have
suffered relative to building societies, which enjoy the same tax exemption on interest as
savings banks. Because of this, the savings banks are now being given greater freedom in


## p. 2286 (#742) ###########################################

2286
17 August
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Bill
setting the conditions and interest rates on their investment and other term deposit accounts.
In recognition of their Government-guaranteed status, trustee savings banks will need
the concurrence of the Reserve Bank to the rates and conditions they intend to apply. The
greater flexibility being given to the savings banks will enable them to offer more adequate
and attractive returns to savers. It will also enable them to fulfil an enhanced role in the
financial system in the future, and increase the availability of high quality mortgage finance.
The need for any increase in the mortgage lending rates of the savings banks as a result of
these changes will be minimised by an arrangement to redeem part of their present low-
yielding Government securities, and to invest the proceeds in holdings at the new higher
rates.
The changes in this Bill are complementary to those already implemented by amend-
ments to the Trustee Savings Banks Interest Orders and Regulations. The Trustee Savings
Banks Interest Order 1977/186 removed the controls on rates and conditions applying to
investment accounts and term deposits. Changes can now be made by the banks themselves
subject only to the consent of the Reserve Bank. This gives trustee banks flexibility in the
interest rates and types of deposits they wish to offer. The limit of 3 percent interest on
ordinary savings accounts is maintained, and the interest rates and conditions applying to
existing investment accounts remain as specified in the previous interest order.
The Trustee Savings Banks Regulations 1949 Amendment No. 18, 1977/187, removed,
with respect to investment accounts, the limitation that a depositor could have only one
account in any class of account, the requirement that deposits had to be for a minimum of
$200, and the regulations relating to the method of making interest payments. The clauses in
this Bill simply complement those amendments to give full effect to the Budget measures.
Clause 1 sets out the short title and commencement date. Clause 2 removes the interest-
bearing deposit limits on all accounts, except farm ownership accounts. The limit of $60,000
applicable to the farm ownership account is retained in this Bill as it now stands, but it is
intended to remove this exception by a Supplementary Order Paper because it is now
redundant; all provisions relating to the farm ownership scheme are covered in the Farm
Ownership Savings Act. The provisions limiting to one the number of accounts a depositor
may have in any one class of account, and the requirement of a trustee savings bank to give 3
months' public notice of a reduction in an interest rate payable, are also repealed.
Clause 3 repeals section 36B, which provided for the acceptance of deposits to
investment accounts, and the conditions relating to the breaking of those deposits. A new
section is substituted providing for deposits in investment accounts or term deposits, and
defining these investments. The new section provides trustee banks with the freedom to
accept deposits for terms of not less than 30 days on conditions and at interest rates they wish
to offer. The Trustee Savings Banks Interest Order 1977 requires the consent of the Reserve
Bank to changes in the interest rates and conditions offered.
Government monetary policy has been to move towards a more flexible and competitive
financial system, one which is better able to react quickly and efficiently to the changing
economic and financial environment. The trustee savings banks play an important role as
major sources of housing finance, and it is essential that they be given the opportunity to
compete on an equal basis to enable them to strengthen that role.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): As the Minister of Finance has
said, the reason for this Bill is to remove an anomaly between the trustee savings banks and,
basically, building societies. It is an anomaly of the Government's own creation. I am afraid
it is one of the ironies of our time that much of our parliamentary work consists of following
through the consequences of an action by putting in another plug or taking out another check
to balance out a mistake that has been made.
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: Why can't you laugh?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I can laugh very cheerily at the member. Members opposite may
recall that a significant part of interest on savings invested with savings banks was exempt for
income tax purposes. This Government saw fit to give that concession also to the building
societies, something they had been denied by the previous Labour Government because the
interest rates they chose to offer were substantially higher than those the savings banks were
able to offer.
I have always felt that we get nowhere by increasing interest rates to attract savings. I
readily agree that many people who have money in excess of their immediate needs will
invest it according to the interest rate that is offered, but I would equally strongly assert that
for the people we label small savers, the people who typically use the trustee savings banks to
put money aside for short-term purposes-to have a holiday or save the deposit on a major


## p. 2287 (#743) ###########################################

17 August
2287
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Bill
capital item-the decision is not affected by the interest rate offered. Otherwise there would
not have been any investment in the Post Office Savings Bank or trustee savings banks in
recent years.
It is pretty clear that people have used the institutions designated in this Bill, and not
those outlined by the Minister, for the purpose of gaining a safe return from interest, but of
course now this Government has embarked on a high interest rate policy we must admit that
the trustee savings banks should not be placed at a grave disadvantage, and therefore, with
the policy of the Government clear and with its majority available, we do not oppose the
further step that has been carried through by this measure.
Hon. W. A. FRASER (St. Kilda): As the Deputy Leader of the Opposition has said, the
Opposition does not oppose this Bill-but it reserves the right to make a few pungent points.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: What?
Hon. R. J. Tizard: Not punchy.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: "Pungent" was the word. I cannot quite understand the Prime
Minister's lack of appreciation of a pretty well known word. He should understand what the
word "pungent" means.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: I have never heard the honourable member being pungent
before.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: I was striving to speak on a non-party basis. And I hope that the
Prime Minister might for once appreciate that a former president of the Trustee Savings
Banks Association might wish to speak, notwithstanding the problem I had in trying to
persuade that same gentleman, as early as 1963, that trustee savings banks should have the
right to provide cheque facilities for their customers.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: We did it. The Labour Government did not do it.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: It took about 10 years after I told the same gentleman that in
Scandinavia trustee savings banks had that right in 1954.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: And they had a superannuation scheme the same as ours.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: I told the Senior Government Whip that I just wanted to speak
for 2 or 3 minutes. I hope that the Prime Minister will try to restrain himself to rare and
reasonable interjections so that I might finish what I am about to say in 2 or 3 minutes.
Hon. H. R. Lapwood: Why didn't you do it before?
Mr SPEAKER: Order! We are having far too many interjections from one side of the
House. The member having the floor desires to make a brief speech.
Hon. W. A. FRASER: I thought we had a responsible Government in control of the
House, but its members cannot restrain themselves long enough to listen to someone who is
trying to make a non-party-political speech. I believe the trustee savings banks have a very
important role to play, and for 3 years I had the honour of being president of the Trustee
Savings Banks Association. I hope the Government will appreciate the important role that
trustee savings banks play. As I was trying to say, the Opposition does not oppose the Bill,
but reserves the right to make some comments on the rather racy explanation we heard from
the Minister of Finance. The Opposition does not accept that trustee savings banks have in
the past been given the same rights as private savings banks. However, they enjoy the
confidence of many people, and play an important part in providing mortgage finance at
comparatively reasonable interest rates to people wishing to buy existing homes. To that
extent I give the Bill my qualified support. More could and should have been done much
earlier, but I am pleased to know that trustee savings banks may receive a better deal from
the Government in future.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I thank the member for St. Kilda for
his non-partisan speech, even though from time to time the words struggled to get out.
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: Just what do you mean by that?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: I mean that the member could not help being partisan and
grudging all through his speech. He knows very well that in the last 10 or 15 years much more
has been done for trustee savings banks by trustees appointed by a National Government
than by trustees appointed by a Labour Government. He said he was president of the
association for 3 years, and so he was. I opened this year's Trustee Savings Banks
Association conference and the president is a former Speaker of the House who was a
member of the National Government, and to try to make party capital out of that is
unworthy of someone who wants to make a non-party speech.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition criticised our general policy, which was
announced before the 1975 election, as was our policy on building societies. He also made
the extraordinary statement that in his view the Government would get nowhere by


## p. 2288 (#744) ###########################################

2288
17 August
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment Bill
increasing interest rates as an attraction to savings. Logically, then, if we paid no interest at
all we would still get the same savings. That may be the view of the Opposition spokesman
on finance, but it is certainly not mine. Perhaps it is a preview of future Labour Party policy.
Is it any wonder that the Deputy Leader of the Opposition lasted little more than a year as
Minister of Finance? I do not propose to delay the House any longer. I have made just one
or two comments on the two speeches we have heard, and I thank the members concerned
for their contributions.
Bill read a second time.
PRIVATE SAVINGS BANKS AMENDMENT BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I move, That this Bill be now read a
second time. The Bill contains the amendments necessary for the full implementation of the
Budget measures giving private savings banks the freedom to set the structure of and the
interest rates on investment and other term deposit accounts. Since 1976.the savings banks
have been at an increasing disadvantage relative to other deposit-taking institutions, as they
have been the only remaining institutions still subject to full interest rate control. Amend-
ments have already been made to the Private Savings Banks Regulations, the Private Savings
Banks Interest Order, and the Private Savings Banks (Government Securities) Order. This
Bill simply complements those amendments to give full effect to the Budget measures.
Clause 1 sets out the short title and the commencement date. Clause 2 removes the
existing interest-bearing deposit limits of $40,000 for an institution and $12,000 for a non-
institution. The provision in the Act specifying that the method of computing interest on
savings accounts is not to apply to investment accounts is extended to exclude term deposits
as well. The section providing that no depositor may have more than one account of any class
of accounts is repealed. This Bill is supplementary to the previous Bill.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): This Bill is an inevitable
consequence of a Government decision, and the attitude of the Opposition is the same as for
the previous Bill. It is unreasonable to place one group at a disadvantage to others and
therefore, although the Opposition does not agree with the basic purpose of the Bill, it does
not object to it if it means that the same rules apply to all institutions.
Bill read a second time.
HUMAN RIGHTS COMMISSION BILL
Interrupted debate on the question, That this Bill be now read a second time.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti): The member for Avon opened the debate on behalf of the
Opposition, and this might be regarded as very appropriate—
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I wonder if I could have some
clarification. I inquired of your assistant as to the stage the debate had reached, and I was
assured that the member for Avon, who was granted an extension of time, had some 6
minutes left.
Mr SPEAKER: In fact, according to my records the member for Avon had 12 minutes
left. However, it would appear from both Hansard and my own records that the member for
Kapiti had commenced speaking by saying he had a significant comment to make on the
priorities of the previous speaker, and then the debate was interrupted by me. I understand
the member for Avon had concluded her speech and is quite happy with the position.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I must accept that.
Mr BRILL: The member for Avon led for the Opposition in this debate, and one
assumes that was because she is the spokesperson on women's rights and family affairs, one
of only two women in the Opposition ranks and a member of the select committee that
considered this Bill. That was appropriate, because the Bill is a very significant move
forward in human rights generally and in women's rights in particular. This would be the
most important measure, with the possible exception of the equal pay legislation, to come
before this Parliament on the subject of women's matters and women's rights generally. That
is why it was so significant that the member for Avon spent something like 90 percent of her
speech dealing with one clause--the clause that deals with the jurisdiction of the Human
Rights Commission over professional organisations and trade unions. It augurs badly for this
debate if, on this important legislation, all Opposition members show that fixation on one
clause out of 83 merely because it refers to the trade union movement. One could inquire
why members opposite are so obsessed with that point. Does the solidarity of the Labour
movement-


## p. 2289 (#745) ###########################################

17 August
2289
Human Rights Commission Bill
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: That's where they get their dough.
Mr BRILL: It seems that the solidarity of the Labour movement is such that it goes
beyond merely women's rights or the other important matters canvassed in this legislation. It
seems that whenever any legislation in which the words “trade union” appear reaches the
House the Opposition is galvanised into action. In fact those are the only times it is
galvanised into any sort of action. Over the past week advertisements have been published in
local newspapers calling on the public to support the Labour Party-advertisements inserted
by the Labour Party-and going on to say, "and support your local trade union". Also
emerging recently has been evidence of the control exercised by the Federation of Labour on
Labour Party candidates. It is inevitable that a trade union leader on the Opposition benches
will be found a seat so that he can represent the trade union movement in the House.
Regardless of the democracy that the party claims to uphold, and regardless of who else
might be nominated, when a trade union leader wants the seat a trade union leader gets the
seat. That is a further indication of the overriding concern Opposition members have about
that narrow segment of this legislation. They appear to have no regard for the very important
matters in the rest of the Bill.
We could well ask what it is that Opposition members find so offensive about the
provisions of the Bill, especially those in clause 59. The Bill goes no further than to say that
the commission shall have the right, on complaints being made by a member of an
organisation, to investigate a complaint that the organisation has "Threatened him or any
other member of the organisation with the use of violence, or with any loss or detriment, or
otherwise indulged in any intimidatory course of action, in order to induce him or that other
member to agree to a particular course of action". The Opposition finds it unacceptable that
the Human Rights Commission should have the power to investigate a situation where a
person has been threatened with violence or other intimidatory action to induce him to agree
to a particular course of action. What possible exception can be taken to that? If a particular
trade union has been involved in threats of violence I would think that Opposition members
would associate with Government members to have those matters investigated and consi-
dered by the Industrial Court. If, on the other hand, there have not been threats of violence
or intimidatory action, a union has nothing to fear and, indeed, has the opportunity to clear
its name by a Human Rights Commission investigation. Yet the Opposition finds that
unacceptable.
There is a further right to investigate an organisation—and I stress that "organisation"
means not only a trade union but any trade organisation or body of employers—if a person
complains that it has refused or failed without reasonable cause to comply with any rule or
procedure of the organisation; that is, if it has not complied with its own rules and
procedures an individual can complain to the Human Rights Commission. As I understood
the member for Avon, her complaint was not so much that anything was wrong with the
provisions in clause 59 but that they were unnecessary because that sort of violence or
intimidatory action or breach of rules simply did not happen; certainly not within the trade
union movement. I did not understand her to go so far as to say it does not happen in other
organisations.
I draw attention to the inquiry carried out by Mr R. K. Davison Q.C. on the instructions
of the Labour Government in 1975 into allegations of intimidation said to have occurred at
Kinleith. A lengthy report was brought down by the commissioner, and I refer to only one or
two aspects of it. On page 42 the commissioner said: “Certain of the workers have attempted
to use strikes and threats of strikes in an endeavour to force management to take action
against other union members." That was found by the commissioner as a fact. He continues
with another fact: "In Kerwin's case pressure from union members caused Kerwin to be sent
home from work by his foreman and the men later went on strike when Kerwin returned to
work and was not removed from the site by his employer." I read from page 43: "Union
matters were conducted in a manner often oppressive to a minority of members present."
The commissioner also said that he believed that the senior union officials-in Auckland,
not the shop delegates-behaved properly when the matter was drawn to their attention,
although he was mildly critical of what they did. He then went on, on page 43: "The fact
remains, however, that if delegates (shop stewards) on the site are to be invested with certain
powers and authorities then adequate procedures must be established and steps taken to see
that they act within those powers and do not abuse them."
The principal purpose of the powers of the Human Rights Commission under clause
59(1)(a) is to enable the commission to investigate whether procedures have been estab-
24 Vol. 412


## p. 2290 (#746) ###########################################

2290
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
lished and to ensure that powers have not been abused. If it is found that the powers are
being abused, the matter can be taken up by the commission with senior officers of the
union. There is no power to take action by way of prosecution. The commission can try to
conciliate to effect a settlement, try to discuss the matter with the union itself and, if
necessary, if unable to achieve a settlement, refer the matter to the Industrial Court. That is
the only penalty that lies in wait in the event that these matters are established. Why is this
provision found to be so horrendous by the Opposition? I believe that most moderate
unionists in New Zealand would be more than happy that an additional protection has been
extended to them, and I suggest that Opposition members should consider whether they
wish to be seen, through their debate in this House, to be withholding, or fighting against,
this right of protection for the many moderate unionists who are quite prepared to abide by
the rules of the union provided their fellow workers do likewise.
As a final point on this aspect of the Bill, I refer to the National Party's 1975 manifesto
in which it is stated-and this was one of the early policies announced by the Prime Minister
on 3 February 1975-"The Human Rights Commission will include investigations of
malpractices in the management and conduct of industrial unions and associations." That
was a clear policy statement. It was taken to the people of the country and endorsed, and the
mandate was applied. We have brought it into the House in the form of this Bill and, as has
happened so frequently in the past, Opposition members are not prepared to accept the
judgment of the people. They are not prepared to accept the mandate granted to the
Government and are prepared to oppose the provisions of the Bill which have been voted on
by the people.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Only 39 percent of the people.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Only 32 percent for Labour, not even one in two voters.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Thirty-nine percent is not a majority.
Mr BRILL: Fewer than one-third of the voters supported the Opposition and that does
not mean the Opposition has the right to oppose legislation adopted democratically by the
majority of New Zealanders. The member for Roskill enjoys pointing out various percen-
tages. Would he be prepared to say whether he believes nothing should be adopted unless it
has 50 percent support, or does he believe in majority rule? If he believes in majority rule,
why do members continue to hear on an almost daily basis the nonsense about the
percentage that he suggests was given to the National Party.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: That's trade union rules.
Mr BRILL: The member is applying some trade union rules-that may well be the
answer. The member for Roskill lost the election, but he is not prepared to accept that.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I do accept it and the comment is unworthy of the member.
Mr BRILL: I am surprised that the member for Roskill accepts that he lost the election
when he continues to make reference to the percentages by which the National Party won
the election.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: It was not all the people.
Mr BRILL: It was the majority of the people. It was the democratic will of the people.
Will the member for Roskill accept the democratic will of the people?
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Not likely.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I accept the loss of the election.
Mr BRILL: The member accepts the loss of the election. The main thrust of the Bill is
the reduction of discrimination on various grounds that are no longer acceptable to New
Zealanders as grounds for discrimination. It should be made clear—and there has been some
misunderstanding about the effect of the Bill-that New Zealanders will still be entitled to
cherish their favourite prejudices. They can continue to discriminate against persons with
red hair, persons with certain mannerisms, persons without hair, and people who do not
appeal for one reason or another. It is not an overall abrogation of the right of people to
have likes and dislikes, to have prejudices, or to cherish their own views. A narrow range of
grounds has been proscribed in the Bill, which provides that discrimination be discouraged.
The first of the grounds is race. In 1972 the House passed the Race Relations
Act-although it was opposed by the Labour Opposition. The Bill takes the provisions of the
Race Relations Act a little further and adds national or ethnic origin. I believe the people
fully support the view that persons should no longer be discriminated against solely on the
basis of race.
The second area is more of an advance. It lays down that people will no longer be
discriminated against solely on the basis of their sex. This provision is a follow-on from the
recommendations of the Select Committee on Women's Rights and the policy brought down


## p. 2291 (#747) ###########################################

17 August
2291
Human Rights Commission Bill
by the National Party before the 1975 election, which stated that we must do away with the
traditional stereotyping that a man is a person of particular ambitions or abilities and a
woman is a person of different abilities and ambitions. Generally that type of stereotyping
has rebounded in the past against the interests of women, who have tended to be regarded as
baby producers and housekeepers and not given the same opportunities as men to advance in
their careers. Many women will want to adopt the traditional role adopted by their mothers
and grandmothers. That is perfectly permissible. There is nothing mandatory in the Bill
about this. Our society has a tendency to force persons to fit into a mould or stereotype. The
Bill ensures equal opportunity for both sexes.
The third area in which the Bill seeks to remove discrimination is that of marital status.
This area is allied to sex discrimination and proscribes actions taken against a person merely
because that person may be married, or on the other hand may not be married.
Finally, the Bill proscribes religious bigotry. In doing so it makes reference to ethical
belief, but it is made clear in the definition that ethical belief is no more than an absence of
religion. If a person is a humanist or a rationalist he obtains the protection of the Bill. The
Bill is not so much of an advance in that field, because there is very little religious bigotry in
New Zealand today, and there would be very few people who would not be perfectly happy
to see enshrined in the statute book that discrimination on the grounds of religion be
unlawful and subject to sanctions.
The committee heard representations that other areas should be included in the Bill.
One was political belief. I had some sympathy for the inclusion of political belief; that a
person should not be discriminated against on the ground of political belief. It became clear
that there would have to be many exceptions to the rule. One of the witnessess before the
committee, the Public Service Association, said that it would not be prepared to employ a
person whose political view was that people are not entitled to civil rights. If, for example, an
extreme fascist were to apply for a job the Public Service Association would not accept that
person. In the last week we have seen that the Public Service Association can be even more
pernickity than that. If a person has a political belief on broadcasting, that can be sufficient
to exclude him from the association.
Age was another subject considered. Discussion was held on whether to permit or
disallow discrimination on the ground of age. Major difficulties are experienced when
drawing boundaries. There must be different provisions applicable to minors, to apprentice-
ships, to career structures, and the like. That matter was left out. Another provision
originally in the Bill and now omitted was a requirement that we should not discriminate
between de facto marriages and legal marriages. I was strongly opposed to that. The
institution of marriage is at present under considerable strain and is at something of a turning
point in its history. It behoves the House to shore up and strengthen the institution of legal
marriage at every opportunity rather than attempt to adopt any practice that would
undermine the institution by legally requiring New Zealanders to consider that there is no
more merit in a legal marriage than in two persons living together.
Another viewpoint that was emphasised strongly to the committee was that sexual
orientation should be included as a proscribed ground. That was a case for which one could
have considerable sympathy. I do not believe that one should discriminate against a person
because of his or her sexual orientation, but I am not prepared to go so far as to say we
should pass a law forbidding people to have views on that subject and to act on those views. I
take that so far as to say we should not retain the discriminatory provisions of the Crimes
Act; this ought not to be a matter for the law, but a matter for individual views and morals.
As to the actual discrimination that occurs, I believe it can be established that although there
is some discrimination against homosexuals, that discrimination is not based on the fact that
they are homosexuals, but possibly on their style of dress, their mannerisms, or their general
appearance. Discrimination might arise from the impact they make upon an employer who
would prefer them not to be holding a particular position, not because they are homosexuals
but because of their mannerisms or their dress, or for other reasons. It would be very
difficult to establish that there is any widespread discrimination based on the mere fact of
homosexuality as opposed to the manifestation of it in one way or another.
The final point I make relates to advertisements, which are mentioned in the Bill. The
committee was under pressure to include provisions proscribing sexist advertisements. That
is a matter of considerable difficulty in definition involving value judgments, and was not
supported by the committee. The committee did make considerable advances in its amend-
ment to clause 29(2) in stating that the mere use of a term which might be considered to refer
to one sex shall not be a breach of the Act, and it gives examples. It lists such terms as
24*


## p. 2292 (#748) ###########################################

2292
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
carpenter, engineer, telephonist, seaman, or typist. The important factor there is that
seaman has been included in the Bill as being a word that does not refer to a particular sex. I
think it will serve the interests of the feminist movement in New Zealand if we get away from
the suggestions that the mere contiguity of the three letters, m, a, n, automatically gives rise
to a connotation of sex-that a person who is a fisherman cannot be female because it is a
fisher-man; that a person who is a chairman cannot be female because it is a chair-man.
Words such as "fisherman" and "chairman" are words in their own right. They terminate
with the letters, m, a, n, but they are neutral in gender, and the Bill has enshrined that
provision in clause 29(2). I hope that will give a lead to the feminist movement generally. I
welcome the Bill.
'Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I must confess to some disappointment at what
the member for Kapiti has said. He opened his speech with some biting criticism of the
member for Avon, which I am sure he realises quite improperly underrates her known
espousal of the cause of women in this House and elsewhere. By singling out her attention to
a particular section, he did her and the House a disservice. Indeed, it was noticeable that the
greater part of his speech was directed to the same part, clause 59. While I intend to try to
say something about the philosophy and motivation of the Bill, it seems clear that the
emphasis laid by the member on that clause indicates the motivation of the Government in
introducing the Bill, which is primarily directed at the trade union section of the community.
I shall not say a great deal about that tonight, but in the Committee stage I am sure there will
be more talk about it.
I turn to some of the clauses, and I do not confine myself to any particular one. But
before embarking on that, I should like, as the member did, to quote from the National
Party's policy-the policy so felicitously described by my colleague the member for St.
Albans as the King James or Authorised Version, the star-studded, apparently accepted
one, not the glossy one. It reads as follows: "The National Party . . . intends to establish a
Human Rights Commission-extending the office of the Ombudsman originally introduced
by a National Government-to investigate complaints of inefficiency, maladministration and
discrimination, and ensure that the exercise of power remains under continuous scrutiny.
The Human Rights Commission will be a body of Ombudsmen and will have the overall
authority to investigate complaints laid against Government departments and organisations,
local organisations, industrial associations and unions, and complaints of discrimination on
the grounds of race, sex or religion. . . . The Human Rights Commission will include the
present Ombudsman's jurisdiction and the currently proposed extensions to cover local
government. Further, it will include investigations of malpractices in the management and
conduct of industrial unions and associations." Of course, it does nothing of the kind. The
Bill that was originally introduced does less.
The committee has effected some improvements, and I say at the outset that some
clauses are commendable; others are reprehensible. However, it certainly does not do what
the National Party claimed would be done, and for the member for Kapiti to charge us with
failing to adopt legislation democratically adopted by the people of New Zealand is a
transparent deception, because what we have is not what was promised. The Bill is quite
different from the undertaking given by the National Party in its manifesto. I shall try to
illuminate some of these differences as I go along.
The original announcement in the manifesto totally misconceived the role and purpose
of the office of Ombudsman, and to assert and to lead the people to believe that what was
intended was to give the Ombudsman—then, now the Ombudsmen-an all-embracing
jurisdiction was to fail to understand the purpose of that office, and would have led it into a
situation where it could not have coped with what was expected of it. As I say, there has
been some improvement. There are some peculiar and questionable features, and some
downright bad and insupportable provisions, and they are the ones to be included in Part V
and VI. Part V deals with provisions that I believe to be a piece of ineffectual window
dressing. Part VI deals with industrial unions and professional and trade associations. That I
believe to be a piece of mischievous tinkering, but we shall come to that at a later stage of the
debate.
I turn first to the interpretation clause, clause 2. "Ethical belief” is the first interpreta-
tion that engages my attention. It reads: "Ethical belief' means the absence of a religious
belief whether in respect of a particular religion or religions or all religions". I drew attention
to the curious phrasing of that in the committee, but it remains. I cannot accept, and I do not
think the people of New Zealand will accept, that ethical belief means the absence of a
religious belief. What is intended, I am sure, is that ethical belief includes such a belief, but


## p. 2293 (#749) ###########################################

17 August
2293
Human Rights Commission Bill
that it need not necessarily be based on a religious foundation. To say that ethical belief
means the absence of a religious belief is a misstatement, and it is not intended to be that
way.
The same flaw appeared in the original Bill in the definition of marital status, which no
longer appears in the Bill. It stated: "Marital status' means the status of being single,
married, married but separated, divorced, widowed, or living in a de facto marriage".
Marital status cannot mean the status of being single. Once again, I am sure it is intended to
include that status. The original Bill faced up to the reality that marriage no longer has the
place and sanctity it used to enjoy in the community, and used to attract from people
generally. It is a sad fact that both the institution and its bonds have suffered a diminution in
public esteem, but it is a fact that we cannot set aside.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: That's rubbish.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: A gentleman says, "Rubbish". However, I feel it is a fact.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Is that your party's policy?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: What a ridiculous statement to make—that it is party policy. It
is a fact that the Government faced up to in the first instance, and that it still in a kind of way
stays half faced up to. It is a fact that the Government acknowledged in the first instance by
including a de facto relationship in the definition of marriage, but when it came to the point
it denied it by excluding such a relationship from a residential situation where it reaches the
peak of its significance. After evidence was tendered to the committee from both sides, the
proposal criticised by some quarters as being too radical and by others as being not radical
enough, the Government in an apparent move to appease both opposing groups adopted a
weak and indecisive compromise. It has dropped the provision defining what a marriage may
be, and attempted to wash its hands of the whole question. But the problem will not
disappear by our pretending it does not exist.
The absence of the definition of marital status creates uncertainty, and will place on the
courts a burden not only of interpreting law but of making law. That is exemplified if we
turn to clause 14, which deals with unlawful discrimination and refers to discrimination in
employment. One provision precludes an employer from dismissing or disadvantaging an
employee by reason of the sex, marital status, or religious or ethical belief of that person. In
the absence of a definition of marital status, what does that mean? It creates uncertainty, and
places a burden on the courts of making the law. Marital status is certainly referable to the
state of being married or unmarried.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Oh, good!
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY: I am glad that the member for Waitemata has grasped a
fundamental point. That being so, it is certainly true that an employer cannot sack an
employee because he or she is either married or not married. If the opposite polarities
cannot be invoked, surely it is absurd to be able to do so on the ground that people are living
together without the benefit of marriage. In other words, if you cannot sack a person
because he or she is single or unmarried, is it feasible as a consequence of what is written
here that people can be sacked because they are not married but living together? Could a
person's employment be affected by his or her entering into a de facto relationship? I do not
know. I do not think anybody else does. I am sure no member of the committee does.
This is uncertain law, and therefore bad law. The truth of it is that the courage of the
Government deserted it, and having grasped or half grasped the nettle it found it too stinging
to hold. The difficulties inherent in clause 14(1)(c) are intensified when we turn to clause
14(5): “Nothing in this section shall apply to preferential treatment based on sex or marital
status where the position requires a married couple." If a couple of people are required, and
an unmarried couple qualify and could not be discriminated against because there is no
definition, where does a homosexual couple stand? That was one of the problems faced in
the committee, and there has been no resolution of it. The Bill remains uncertain and open
to argument and dispute, as there certainly will be before the courts when the Bill is put into
operation.
I can see some unavoidable difficulties of definition, or rather of description, in a statute
that breaks new ground in New Zealand, although it certainly is not unprecedented if we
look elsewhere. To try to overcome them, a novel drafting technique has been invoked: that
of exemplification. That is common in ordinary conversation: if you are trying to describe to
a person you are talking to an object that is strange to him, you commonly liken it to
something with which he is familiar. That technique is adopted in the Bill. Clause 14(3)
states: "Nothing in this section shall apply to preferential treatment based on sex where-(a)
For reasons of authenticity, as in theatrical performances, posing for artists, or being a


## p. 2294 (#750) ###########################################

2294
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
model for the display of clothes. . .", and again in paragraph (b) of the same clause: "In the
case of a position such as that of attendant in a public lavatory or as a person responsible for
the fitting of clothes to customers or others, the position needs to be held by one sex to
preserve reasonable standards of privacy". I am not sure about the propriety of the word
"needs", and that was questioned by me and others in the committee-but there it stands.
Again, use was made of some colloquial expressions that strike one as being rather
strange in a statute. For instance, I suppose the phrase "fringe benefits" is something that we
all more or less reasonably comprehend, but to find it in a statute, where one is accustomed
to words and phrases being carefully defined, struck me as rather startling. I questioned it at
first, but in the end I was satisfied that it is legitimate, and that the difficulty of defining just
what "fringe benefits" may be is almost insuperable, and perhaps will have to be left to the
courts. There is less justification for the phrase “equal pay" in clause 14(9), which states:
"Where the Commission is satisfied that a complaint under this section relates solely to equal
pay it shall refer the complaint to the Secretary of Labour . . .". I suppose that means a
disparity between male and female remunerations, but in my judgment it is rather unsatisfac-
torily vague.
The committee heard a good deal of evidence on clause 16, which deals with partner-
ships. The Bill now provides, and always has provided, for limitation to an association of six
or more. I must confess that, while I did my best to try to reach some consenus with other
committee members as to what was satisfactory, I can foresee great difficulty in a firm
consisting of six or more refusing or omitting to offer a person admission to a partnership on
the grounds of colour, race, ethnic or national origins, sex, marital status, or religious or
ethical belief, or the colour, race, ethnic or national origins of any relative or associate of
that person. I can see, Mr Speaker, that you are wrestling with the complexities of that, and I
know it will be difficult for the courts to determine whether an omission to offer a
partnership to a person where the qualifications of that party may or may not be known to
the existing partners could be justified on those grounds. Indeed, if it is appropriate to
extend it to partnerships, is there not some ground for suggesting that it should be extended
to the directorates of the small family companies with which we are so familiar in New
Zealand?
I turn to clause 22, which aroused a good deal of discussion in the committee and which
might be irreverently called the "woman jockey" clause. I believe the original wording in the
clause was chauvinistic and condescending. It stated: "Nothing in this section shall prevent
the exclusion of persons of one sex from participation in any competitive sporting event or
activity in which persons of one sex would customarily excel persons of the other." That has
implications of condescension that I think we all found unacceptable, and the phrase has now
been deleted and substituted by "in which persons of one sex generally compete separately
from persons of the other." The situation under contemplation there was that of a tennis
tournament or a women's bowling club, where the custom has been for persons of one sex to
compete against persons of the other, not with a requirement or even an expectation that
one is superior to the other. In the same clause we see that "nothing in this section or in
section 4 of the Race Relations Act 1971 shall apply to any club." It is a peculiar approach to
say that nothing in another Act shall apply to a particular situation, and presents the
annotators of statutes with some difficulty. I am not sure how they are going to deal with
this. It does not amend the Race Relations Act; it simply states that nothing in that group
shall apply.
I want to say just a word about a topic mentioned by the member for Kapiti. Various
homosexual groups pressed for a specific reference to sexual orientation or sexual preference
to be included in the Bill. I mentioned the difficulties of definition and interpretation of such
a clause during the debate on the introduction, and it is a fact that it is not included, even in
the large rubric appearing in the amended Bill, and which now goes to this extent,
"comprising colour, race, ethnic or national origin, sex, marital status, or religious or ethical
beliefs", but not, mark you, political beliefs, political preference, or age, topics that I believe
some of my colleagues will mention. It adds a new clause that may hold out some hope to
those who pressed the objections on us. Clause 25A states, "The Commission may, upon
such conditions as it thinks fit and subject to revocation or suspension at any time, approve
in writing any special plan or programme submitted to it by any person if it considers that
-(a) The plan or programme will assist or advance particular persons or groups of persons,
being in each case persons of a particular sex or marital status". There seems room to argue
that a homosexual relationship could be regarded as affecting people of a particular sex or
marital status. I am not by any means confident enough to say that it does, but I think it


## p. 2295 (#751) ###########################################

17 August
2295
Human Rights Commission Bill
opens an avenue for the people who made these representations to us to explore, and
perhaps to make representations to the commission, inviting it to embark on some kind of
recommendations for special programmes under the provisions of that clause.
I pass over a number of other provisions, and turn to those that I was critical of at the
outset those dealing with privacy. The powers under the Bill go no further than inquiring,
reporting to the Prime Minister, suggesting to others, and making public statements. In that
regard they are not dissimilar to those contained in the Privacy Commissioner Bill
introduced by the previous Administration, but allowed to lapse. I believe the provisions of
that Bill were more effective, but I will not have time to go further than that.
Part VI deals with industrial unions and professional and trade associations, on which I
and other members will elaborate in the Committee stage. I believe this is a charter for
stirrers and an encouragement to busybodies. Clause 59 is the main operative clause. In my
judgment it does no more than duplicate remedies now readily available in established courts
of law, including that specialist tribunal the Industrial Court. Clause 62 is an undisguised
attempt to impose the penalties of the Industrial Relations Act 1973, while denying its
benefits to those who are subjected to its provisions. The clause reads as follows: "The
Industrial Court shall have jurisdiction to hear and determine any matter referred to it under
section 61 of this Act and the provisions of the Industrial Relations Act 1973, and in
particular sections 47 to 62 of that Act, shall have effect accordingly, with the necessary
modifications, notwithstanding that the organisation in respect of which the complaint is
made is not registered, or is not eligible to register, under the Industrial Relations Act
1973." That seems to me to have the plain consequences of invoking or making liable to
penalties under the Industrial Relations Act bodies such as the Public Service Association,
which do not qualify for recognition under the Act or enjoy any of the benefits provided by
that generally beneficial legislation.
Mr LATTER (Marlborough): When the member for Avon opened the debate for the
Opposition she used the words—and I think I quote her correctly—“many aspects of human
rights were not covered". Many New Zealanders will agree with that; I certainly do. I say,
thank goodness, and so will a lot of other New Zealanders. The Bill breaks completely new
ground. I think all members of the House-and especially members of the select
committee-found it difficult to legislate to create equal rights for all. In so doing, the so-
called or assumed rights of other people are invariably taken from them. We need to proceed
slowly with this legislation. I applaud the Minister of Justice and the Government for
bringing it in, because I believe there is a need for it. I do not go overboard about it, and I
would not like to see it any wider than it is. During the select committee hearings, my aim
was to keep the legislation as narrow as I could, and not to let it widen at this stage. We have
to give it time to settle down and allow the commission to be accepted.
To begin with, there will be wide feelings of wonderment about it. A great deal will
depend on the administration and the abilities of the commissioners as to whether or not it is
accepted, and whether or not it gives a lead to New Zealanders as to the type of conduct
necessary to avoid discrimination. No one wants discrimination in New Zealand, but it is a
very difficult issue to legislate for. If we had widened the Bill to the extent that most the
submissions wanted, we would have made it almost impossible for people to employ
someone to rent accommodation, sell accommodation, and so on. Submission No. 27 wanted
the committee to extend the Bill substantially. As its reasons for discrimination it gave sexual
orientation, age, family responsibility, personal appearance, political affiliation, physical
handicap, source of income, place of residence, place of business, and then went on to state:
"However, there are many types in addition to this." One could go on and produce
legislation that would not work. That is why I commenced my second reading speech by
saying I applaud the Bill in its present form. It is over to all of us to see that it works.
Before dealing with the clauses, I want to say that I was shattered by the non-tactical
sense and lack of taste shown by some people who had certain opinions to offer the
parliamentary select committee but mucked them up by their aggressiveness and lack of
common sense when writing their submissions. I recall one submission from Auckland, and
another from Christchurch.
The member for Henderson criticised the Bill in relation to the manifesto. However, the
manifesto is a collection of words, and the Government is following that promise. The
promise will emerge somewhat differently in another collection of words, which the member
for Henderson knows all about, and the member for Western Hutt does not like—namely,
legal language that will stand up. However, it does follow the promise in the manifesto, and
is a good start. I remind the member for Henderson that Sir Guy Powles said that this is a


## p. 2296 (#752) ###########################################

2296
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
good Bill. I appreciate the opinion and the knowledge of the member for Henderson, but I
also appreciate the knowledge and expertise of Sir Guy.
The member for Henderson described Part V as window dressing-and I will come back
to that in a moment-and said that Part VI was unnecessary. He also made a play about
ethical belief. However, he knows, as we all know, that in the original Bill, before it went to
the select committee, the belief was religious or ethical. The committee tried to bring the
original meaning back as a let-out. You can discriminate. As is outlined in the Bill, there is,
in some cases, positive discrimination for a religious reason. You should therefore be able to
have positive discrimination in some cases for somebody with no religious belief. The whole
difficulty with the legislation, as the member knows, was in dealing with the let-out clause. It
would be so simple if the clause could be drafted without a let-out.
It is over to the member to give his opinion about the de facto provisions, but he did
mention the word "requires" in clause 14(5). We do not need to dream up cases where a
married couple would be needed. I am thinking of youth hostels where wardens are needed,
perhaps for a particular reason. A religious or semi-religious organisation might want to
teach children the values of family life, and want married people. There is a lot of reason in
that.
The other point I want to make is about sexual orientation. Like the member for Kapiti
and the member for Henderson, I believe there is sexual discrimination in New Zealand at
present, intentionally or unintentionally, but as I said earlier I do not believe the time is right
to bring it into this legislation. The legislation must start slowly, be accepted, be made to
work, and be seen to work. Bringing sexual orientation, age, and so on, into the document
would kill it before it starts.
There seems to be a lot of feeling that people should not report to the Prime Minister. I
cannot see why the word "Prime Minister" in clause 5 would put people off, but some people
seem to think the reports should go to the Minister or to Parliament. Clause 5A (2) provides
for the commission to report to the Prime Minister in some cases—and I will not mention the
odd case where it cannot-and then to make its report public. That is a perfectly safe
procedure. However, the commission could report to the Prime Minister, who might not do
anything about it, in which case the commission can then, in its report to the House, say
exactly what it has done. The clause as it stands is perfectly satisfactory.
I applaud the new clause 14A dealing with the armed forces, police, traffic officers, and
officers of penal institutions. I was aghast at the feeling during the select committee hearings
that the police were old fashioned and that the armed forces were stuffy. If the police force
says it will not give a job to de factos, that is good enough for me. I want the police to be run
as they are at present without too much interference. The jobs of the police and the armed
forces are the worst in New Zealand. For goodness sake, do not make it more difficult for
them. If they want men, and not women, that is O.K. by me. Let them discriminate. I do not
mind seeing discrimination in the police force or the armed forces.
There was a lot of discussion before clause 14в, which deals with temporary exemption,
was changed. It now states: "Nothing in section 14 of this Act shall apply to preferential
treatment based on sex where-(a) The availability of facilities, being sanitary facilities,
ablution facilities, rest rooms, or changing rooms. . ." are not available for both sexes. A
previous clause in the Bill as it went to the select committee, covered this exemption for
accommodation where employees sleep. That has now been changed to make some
temporary exemption so that it will be possible to have preferential treatment for a certain
time, at the place of work, for males or females where the sanitary or ablution facilities do
not suit both sexes for a certain time. I welcome this. In fact, I pushed it in caucus, because if
members think of the upheaval and the expense involved in making sanitary or ablution
facilities available for both sexes in freezing works, railway workshops, and many of the
institutions where we, as a Government, are the employer, they will find that they are
.talking about an immense amount of money. A period of grace up to June 1982 is given
before that becomes illegal, and a matter of discrimination.
The member for Henderson talked about clause 16 and partnerships. To be quite frank,
I think this is an unworkable clause, but it has been left in to make it unlawful for a firm
consisting of six or more partners to discriminate. I noticed with interest that the member for
Henderson criticised the figure of six, but did not bother to suggest any other figure, and this
was the difficulty. There were submissions that it should be opened out to 15, and so on. We
have left it at six. I repeat that I do not believe it is a particularly workable clause, and I will
be interested in how the commission handles this one, and to see in its annual reports how
many complaints it has.


## p. 2297 (#753) ###########################################

17 August
2297
Human Rights Commission Bill
I am aware that the Opposition does not like Part V, on privacy. The member for
Henderson said it is window dressing. It is a very good part of the Bill. It gives the
commission the job of examining all fields that could affect privacy, collating information,
and reporting to Parliament on any matters it thinks need attention. The wording is quite
clear. While the commission is to inquire generally into any matter and report to the Prime
Minister from time to time, it does not have the power to investigate incidents of interfer-
ence with privacy, but simply to report on them and put them to the House. I believe the
recommendation is perfectly sound, and I wonder why members opposite have been so
critical.
All of us who worked on the select committee knew that the Opposition did not like
Part VI, and neither did the Federation of Labour and others who made submissions. I think
they are being pig-headed, and what we have to discuss is whether there is a need for Part VI
or whether it can be covered in other legislation. At the select committee hearings the
member for Mangere, rather intriguingly I thought, lined witnesses up and said, "That
part can you do that under something else?", until he had subtracted down to a stage
where he felt that there was nothing left. But there is something left, because we must
remember that this part is not anti-union in emphasis; it deals with industrial unions, and
professional and trade associations, and affects any union of employers to the same extent.
I was interested in the opinion of the Law Society. When it was asked, "Should it apply
to members of the Law Society?", the answer was, "Why shouldn't it? If it is going to apply
to everybody else, why shouldn't it apply to us?" That was a very responsible answer from a
responsible body, and very different from the comment by Mr Jim Knox who, in fact, said
something like this: "We will discipline our members. We do not want any Human Rights
Commission to interfere." When he was asked if there might possibly be some people, some
time, in some unions who were in a minority, he came up with this: "There will always be a
minority, but it has to yield to the majority." That is pretty good stuff, but it is not so good if
you are in a minority in a union, or if you happen to be a minority of one in a professional
organisation of employers or workers.
I find it interesting that, since the Bill has been reported back, there has been an
incident in my electorate which cannot be covered at the moment under the Industrial
Relations Act 1973, or the Commerce Act, but could be covered in Part VI. I am referring to
a recent withholding of labour by shearers in the Marlborough Province. I went to the
Minister, and we found that there was nothing that could be done to stop the threats and
intimidation. A certain union official went over to Marlborough, and got headlines on the
editorial page by saying that shearers would hire a spotter plane to fly around the area, so
that any farmers shearing their own sheep or bringing shearers from outside the area would
be known, and their wool blacklisted, along with any outside shearer. That is an intimidating
threat, and if one reads clause 59(1)(b) one finds that that is exactly what was going on. They
were threatening that person or any other member of the organisation with the use of
violence. There was a lot of talk about the hands that pick up the hand-piece being smashed.
Subclause 59(1)(c) talks of any loss or detriment, and the official did say that if any shearers
came from Canterbury they would get a hard time. Clause 59(1)(b) contains the phrase,
"otherwise indulged in an intimidatory course of action". Intimidation and threat were
involved, and any farmer or shearer could have immediately gone to the commission under
this part of the Bill.
There have been two industrial strikes in the last two years in Marlborough, and threats,
or the threat of threats, from farmer to farmer, which exactly fit clause 59(1)(c): "Has
directly or indirectly caused him or that other member to suffer any loss or detriment". This
is covered again in the union official's statement in the paper about wool being tipped into
gullies. That is a loss or detriment. Members of the other side want to argue that this is an
example of the National Government pointing at the unions, but Part VI of the Bill covers
the sort of situation I have described, and covers anybody who has a complaint about rules,
or lack of rules, or lack of following of rules, in his own organisation.
This is good legislation. I have been quite frank in saying I am glad it is not wider in its
coverage at the moment. I believe that it must be given time and careful publicity. I believe
that the Department of Justice will release, as it did with the Matrimonial Property Act, a
clear explanatory booklet telling people exactly what their rights are and what the mechan-
isms will be under the Bill. Its success will depend on two things—the ability of the human
rights commissioners and of the tribunal and the panels that will be set up by the Minister,
and the administrative set-up, also to be established by the Minister. I found it interesting
that the select committee received one submission suggesting the type of administration that


## p. 2298 (#754) ###########################################

2298
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
should be established. Looking back, I think it would have been a lot clearer to some people
and organisations who were making submissions if there had been a suggested chain of
command and administrative arrangement attached to the original Bill for them to comment
on. A lot of people were confused as to whether or not they would be able to go to a human
rights commissioner in Auckland, what they would do if they lived in Taupo, and whether
there would be one in Wellington. The same applies to the tribunal. Administration is, I
believe, a key factor in getting this type of legislation off the ground.
Finally, I wish it well. I am aware that a lot of New Zealanders will be suspicious of the
legislation, but it has been well studied. There has not been too much inter-party argument,
and I hope there will not be too much in the future. I hope the Bill will succeed in indicating
to all New Zealanders the type of conduct we want in this country, without trying to cross too
many legal t's and dot too many legal i's.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN (Southern Maori): With the term
"human rights" in the title of the Bill, the Government-inspired publicity about it has
created the illusion of action across the full range of human affairs or human rights according
to the United Nations Human Rights declarations, where none actually exists. I repeat that
Government publicity has created the illusion of action where none actually exists. The New
Zealand Law Society, to which the member for Marlborough has just referred, claimed that
the choice of title was unfortunate. In fact, the United Nations Association of New Zealand
was but one of several groups that made submissions suggesting the Bill ought to be
renamed. Those groups suggested that such names as the “Anti-discrimination Bill" or the
"Equal Opportunities Bill" would more accurately reflect its objectives. As the United
Nations Association claimed, the Bill's title tends to mislead people into thinking it covers
the whole field of human rights, and inasmuch as the title is misleading and suggests a
proposition contrary to received opinion it is a paradox, for of course the Bill does not cover
the whole field of human rights. In fact, it resembles a measure I personally advocated in the
House on 9 July 1971, although even then I suggested that the complete range of arbitrary
and prejudicial discrimination might be incorporated into legislation.
The fact is that the bulk of this Bill-Parts II, III, and IV-deals with discrimination,
not human rights, and as such it is an anti-discrimination measure, inasmuch as it deals more
with what cannot be done than with what should be done. The anti-discrimination aspects of
the Bill deal with discrimination on the basis of race, colour, ethnic or national origin, sex,
marital status, religious, or ethical beliefs, but one of the several notable omissions is that
discrimination on the grounds of political belief or opinion is not to be outlawed-in spite of
the fact that the United Nations conventions provide for the freedom of political opinion, as
did the Bill of Rights introduced by the late Mr Hanan. A significant number of the
submissions made to the select committee-15, in fact-asked for political opinion to be
included in the list of outlawed bases of discrimination.
On "Checkpoint" on 9 July of this year, the Minister in charge of the Bill spoke of very
strong evidence for removing de facto relationships from the protection of the Bill, which he
said had been requested in submissions to the committee. I do not recall more than three
people-Patricia Bartlett, Des Dalgety on behalf of the ANZ Bank, and the Gospel Radio
Fellowship representative-seeking the removal of de facto relationships from the protection
of the Bill. That was hardly strong evidence, and one would imagine that 15 submissions
suggesting the inclusion of political opinion might have moved the Minister in a similar
fashion.
The basic function of the so-called Human Rights Bill was stated by Professor Keith,
Professor of Law at Victoria University, to be the resolution of disputes. Like Professor
Keith, I too consider it should assert a positive rather than the proposed negative role. The
commission should not be solely in the business of investigating complaints and, where
appropriate, attempting to produce a satisfactory result. The broader positive powers to
promote human rights through education, publicity, and related programmes and activities
are of great potential significance. Furthermore, I have said that it should be the role of any
Human Rights Commission to examine and report on the New Zealand Government's
reasons for non-ratification of international covenants and propositions. I also see another
positve role for any Human Rights Commission-to monitor, as does the Treasury, all policy
proposals and legislation formulated by Government departments and Governments them-
selves. The community could only benefit if the Human Rights Commission publicly
reported on all aspects of Government policy-and I reiterate the words "publicly
reported", as that is not necessarily provided for in the Bill.
On the question of monitoring all Government legislation, the New Zealand Maori


## p. 2299 (#755) ###########################################

17 August
2299
Human Rights Commission Bill
Council and the New Zealand Maori Women's Welfare League said that any amendments to
human rights affecting the Maori race should never be made without the consent of the
Maori community. Two notable examples of legislation drawn up and passed without
consulting Maori representatives come to mind-the 1967 Maori Affairs Amendment Act,
and the Maori Purposes Act of 1966, and particularly one clause in the latter Act which
deemed that land originally granted to South Island Maori land owners would thenceforth be
deemed to be Crown land. My people, the present-day owners of that land, want that
provision repealed; it has clearly violated their human rights. Also, the New Zealand Maori
Council and the New Zealand Maori Women's Welfare League sought a guarantee that
separate Maori representation in Parliament was not and never could be interpreted as a
breach of any provision of the Bill, but the Government has not yet given those two groups
any guarantee.
Of the Bill's 83 clauses, as many as 45 were amended during the select committee's
deliberations in partial recognition of the appeals from those who made submissions. Such
extensive amendment prompted me to request the Minister to provide a completely new
explanatory note, to be published with the much amended Bill as reported back to
Parliament by the select committee. It is important that people fully comprehend the Bill,
especially if it is to be understood and used by the ordinary people of our community. I
wanted a clause-by-clause paraphrasing of it in something closer to everyday language than
the legalese in which it is couched, but my request was not met as the Government obviously
wanted the Bill to be reported back within a day or so of the select committee's final
meeting. Yet that was the meeting at which I made by request, and it was almost a month
ago to the day on 20 June last. However, the Minister agreed to make a concession—a typed
note of explanation was to be provided with each copy of the amended Bill. Surely that is a
much more inefficient and costly process than the one I requested, yet there have been 4
weeks in which my request could have been met.
Furthermore, that explanatory note is in error in its front page, where reference is made
to clause 5A. Let me illustrate. Clause 5A is unchanged from the original, and states that one
of the powers of the Human Rights Commission will be to promote, by education and
publicity, respect for and observance of human rights. However, the explanatory note
relating to this specific clause states, "These reporting provisions relate to the executive
policy-makers' functions of Government.” It goes on to state that other clauses relating to
reports are to be found in their appropriate places in the Bill. Of course, the explanatory
note bears no relationship whatever to the clause in the Bill. What is the public to take from
that error? It is not good enough. The people should have been given a completely new
explanatory note, printed on the front of the amended Bill.
The Minister in charge of the Bill cannot claim, as he did on the Shop Trading Hours
Bill, that the public is being wilfully misled by the Opposition because extensive changes
made in a select committee have not been explained to the electorate. If the public is misled
then it is because no adequate explanation has been attached to the much amended version
reported back. The first paragraph of the note of explanation states that the short title has
been changed to "indicate the influence of the United Nations International Covenants on
Human Rights". That amendment, however, in effect perpetuates the misunderstanding in
the minds of the people who, because the term "human rights" occurs in the title, expect that
the Bill will protect human rights as defined by the United Nations. Of course, the Bill does
not do that; it does not protect human rights as defined in the United Nations Charter. The
Bill commits neither the Government nor anyone else to anything at all, in so far as the
covenants are concerned, if they have not been ratified by New Zealand.
Part VI is a further denial of the right of trade unions to organise, and thus contravenes
ILO convention No. 87. Contrary to the newly amended short title, which refers to the
advancement of human rights in New Zealand in general, in accordance with the United
Nations International Convention, Part VI actually violates one of the covenants of that
convention passed in 1948. The ILO convention No. 87 states that workers' organisations
shall have the right to draw up their constitution and rules, elect their representatives in full
freedom, organise their administration and activities, and formulate their programmes. Of
course, section 20 of the Industrial Relations Amendment Act 1976 and the penal provisions
of last year's Commerce Amendment Act and Part VI-all introduced by this
Government-violate that international convention. I claim that it should be the role of the
commission, as I have said, to examine and report on the Government's reasons for non-
ratification of international treaties on human rights. In Australia a Bill has been introduced
to ratify the covenant, but in New Zealand this Government continues to introduce laws that


## p. 2300 (#756) ###########################################

2300
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
violate it. Thus the short title encapsulates a paradox, pledging the advancement of human
rights in accordance with the United Nations International Convention on Human Rights,
while Part VI actually violates one such convention.
Part VI is an attack on the internal disciplinary powers and the solidarity of the trade
unions. In the eyes of the trade union movement this provision can only taint any legislation
that claims to promote equal opportunity. The Bill in Part VI effectively overreaches itself in
its desire to promote individual rights, while fundamentally eroding the rights of groups to
resort to collective action. Part VI illustrates the impossibility of promoting human rights
without some definition of those rights either by a code or a charter. The Bill does not even
define human rights. The most that can be said for it is that it endeavours to promote
equality of opportunity in some areas while denying it in others. To call this Bill a Human
Rights Bill, even in its much amended form, is misleading, and this should be recognised.
Part V, like Part VI, should be deleted. It empowers the Human Rights Commission to
make public statements in relation to any matter affecting the privacy of the individual, or of
a class of individuals. It is so extraordinarily vague that it verges on the meaningless. It is also
toothless. Despite the submissions by Professor Keith of the Victoria University law faculty
that Part V should be withdrawn, the Government has retained it, no doubt because the
Prime Minister is given a prominent role in both asking for and receiving reports. Because of
the use in the title of the term "human rights", the select committee received compelling
submissions from groups whose human rights are in no way protected by the Bill, and despite
the improvements that were undoubtedly brought about at the select committee, where 45 of
the original 87 clauses were amended, there are many groups whose human rights are in no
way protected. I am thinking first of children, of whom article 25 of the United Nations
Declaration on the Rights of the Child, adopted by the United Nations Assembly in 1959,
speaks so poignantly. That declaration is still unratified by this Government. Secondly, I
think of a sad new phenomenon, the youthful underachievers rejected by the education
system, who contribute to the community's unemployed. Thirdly, we have those subject to
learning difficulties, and fourthly, the physically and mentally handicapped, subjects of the
Declaration of the Rights of the Mentally Retarded, now in process of adoption by the
UNO, the aged, and people who are not heterosexual.
Nineteen submissions made to the select committee pressed for the inclusion of sexual
orientation or sexual preference as a human right for law-abiding citizens and as insufficient
reason in itself for discrimination. My personal conviction was for its inclusion. However I
gained the impression that most committee members were of a different opinion. I might
have been wrong. Yet any area not given protection by this Bill will be even more vulnerable
than it would have been had the Bill not been passed. I expressed thoughts on this subject in
this House on 24 July 1974 during a debate on the Crimes Amendment Bill. Today I want to
express the same concern, since I hold personally to the view that like sex, skin colour, and
nationality, homosexuality is not a matter of choice. Some may argue that homosexuality is
more prevalent in times of social stress and strain, such as during the decline of empires, but
such stress and strain is not a matter of choice for the individual, who merely reacts to them.
Homosexuality is not a matter of choice. If 4 percent of New Zealand's population are
homosexuals—and research suggests this to be so-then at least 128 000 New Zealanders,
male and female, are homosexuals. None has any choice over his or her orientation. Indeed,
almost all researchers agree that homosexuality is innate or inherent.
Legal systems ought to condemn specific acts which are seen as wrong chiefly because
such acts hurt other people, but should not condemn people simply for what they are and
because they do not hurt other people. I maintain that my attitude is totally consistent. I do
not consider it ought to be valid to condemn a person purely because that person is a woman,
a man, a pakeha or a Maori, a German, a Jew, a heterosexual or a homosexual. What I
condemn are specific acts that offend against humanity, and, in particular, perpetuate
unnecessary suffering. After all, some degree of stress is an inevitable consequence of
existence, and it increases when society is undergoing change. Conflicting social pressures
cause it, but cause it unnecessarily when these pressures result from prejudice and bigotry.
Good government should always aim to remove unnecessary pressures that cause unneces-
sary suffering to citizens. I speak for the law-abiding among the significant minority. A crime
is a crime no matter who commits it, and it is against such criminal acts that punitive
measures should be directed, not against law-abiding people simply because of an innate
characteristic. The child molester commits a crime whether he is a heterosexual or not.
Couples who have a stable and meaningful relationship, whose togetherness is not causing
suffering to others, particularly children, and is reducing not only their own individual


## p. 2301 (#757) ###########################################

17 August
2301
Human Rights Commission Bill
suffering but also the suffering of others, should enjoy the same protection under the Bill as
other law-abiding couples. These thoughts are expressed against a background of previous
experience as a counsellor in this field.
Perhaps the most significant amendment is the addition of the new clause 5c, which
gives the Human Rights Commission extra power to invite representations from members of
the public on any matter affecting human rights. This amendment makes it clear that the
commission's activities are no longer to be totally confined to the much restricted areas of
discrimination mentioned in Part II, and is contrary to the Bill as originally introduced. The
calibre of the three commissioners, especially their sensitivity and vision, will be absolutely
vital if the potentiality inherent in the new clause 5C is to become a reality.
Miss DEWE (Lyttelton): I recall a comment made by Neil Armstrong when he stepped
on to the moon for the first time. He said: "This is a small step for man, but a giant leap for
mankind." I see the Bill as a giant leap not only for mankind but also for womankind. We
have heard from the two lady members of the Opposition, who have been very brief indeed
in their comments on the effect of the Bill on women. The Bill is one of the major steps
forward taken by this or any other Government, because it ensures that women will have
equal opportunity and equality with men in all fields of endeavour. I am disappointed that
the Opposition has concentrated on one or two aspects and has completely ignored the
positive steps taken in this important social legislation.
It is interesting to reflect that much of our important social legislation has been
introduced by National Governments; for example, the Race Relations Act, and Equal Pay
Act, the Accident Compensation Act, national superannuation legislation, the Evidence
Amendment Bill, and the 1972 budgetary provisions incorporating many of the recommen-
dations of the Royal Commission on Social Security. The Opposition is always ready to say
that the National Government is concerned about money, not people, but history proves
that to be wrong. National Governments have a stronger social conscience than any Labour
Administration has ever proved to have had. The Bill is concerned with the equality of
people regardless of colour, sex, marital status, ethnic origin, or religious belief. The
member for Southern Maori said the Bill should embrace people with handicaps, and should
be extended into other areas. The Bill is concerned with the rights of people who are equal
before the law and who may have been discriminated against in employment, job opportun-
ity, advancement, and housing.
Having established that particular basis, and the principle embodied in the Bill, let us
look a little more closely to see what the Bill actually does. It covers employment, the
provision of goods and services, access to public places, and to land, housing, education, and
accommodation, and it treats people as equal, whether they are male or female, married or
single, irrespective of their colour, race, or religious belief. The Bill's principles are worthy,
and therefore I support them wholeheartedly. Human rights legislation is still in its infancy.
In his submissions to the committee the Chief Ombudsman, Mr Laking, pointed out that the
Bill was an experiment similar to the experiment of instituting the original ombudsman.
There were not very many guidelines, and we had to feel our way. In this Bill we are still
feeling our way. The Chief Ombudsman also pointed out that the Bill covered a very
sensitive area and, by its nature, would impinge on the rights of individuals, there being no
strong and clear consensus of what those rights actually are. So we have had to tread with
caution, while looking at the matter with determination and making positive comments and
decisions. The retired Chief Ombudsman recognised this when, in his submission, he
congratulated those who were responsible for the Bill and said—and this was a matter of
sheer delight to me that it contained not only some very fine drafting but some very
valuable cerebration. He said it was a very good Bill and the Government was to be
congratulated on its forethought in introducing it.
We are conscious that people's natural prejudices will have to be suppressed so that
there can be a greater consciousness of the need for concern for others, but how far can any
Government go in restraining and restricting people's prejudices? That is a matter I have felt
very troubled about, particularly in the context of sexual orientation. I could not have
supported the introduction of the sexual orientation clause into the Bill, despite the fact that
there were great pressures on me as a member of the committee and of the House to do so. I
have discussed this matter with many people, but I still feel that New Zealand society is not
yet ready to accept that kind of orientation, which is still alien to the way of life of most of us.
The Bill provides a proper framework for women to achieve true equality with men,
particularly in employment, access to goods and services-particularly mortgage finance and
hire purchase credit facilities—to public places-that will please some of the women in


## p. 2302 (#758) ###########################################

2302
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
feminist movements who insist on entering certain public bars-and in land, housing,
accommodation, education, and advertising matters. The conference of women held in
March 1976 outlined several targets for anti-discriminatory legislation. They included (a)
employment; (b) access to goods, services, and facilities; (c) advertising; (d) housing; and (e)
education. The Bill covers all those targets. It has achieved in this slim, unostentatious
document what the women's conference set out to achieve as a true basis for the equality of
women. I appreciate the understanding of the Minister of Justice in this matter. I express to
the members of the select committee my appreciation of their sympathetic approach and
their understanding of the importance of these objectives.
The member for Henderson mentioned the jockey clause-clause 22. I do not quite
know why we called it that. We realised, I presume, that if we did not word it correctly we
would perpetuate the Racing Conference's prohibition on women's participation in profes-
sional races. We were all of one mind on this, and I suppose that is why we called it the
women's jockey clause. I trust that the wording, which was laboured over-no pun
intended-has achieved the result intended. After the Bill was reported back by the select
committee I was amused to find that the Racing Conference found it possible in its heart and
rules to allow women to become jockeys. I was very surprised about the decision of the
Racing Conference, and I am sure most women were.
Comment has been made about Part V of the Bill, which deals with privacy and the
function of the commission. The member for Henderson said that clause 58 was ineffectual
window dressing, and the member for Southern Maori said that it should be deleted. I am
disturbed about those comments. New Zealand has no legislation to protect the individual's
privacy. This matter is very dear to the heart of the member for St. Albans, and was
mentioned constantly during the select committee hearings on the Broadcasting Bill last
year. I am convinced that Part V is one of the most important parts of the Bill. It is not
ineffectual window dressing and should not be deleted, as recommended by members
opposite.
I was concerned about the sour grapes that crept into the speech of the member for
Southern Maori when she spoke about the reports that would be made to the Prime
Minister. The commission has nowhere to go for guidelines. Today we are at the mercy of
technology. The Government is giving the commission power to investigate matters that
could affect an individual, particularly his privacy and matters that should be regarded as
private. Who can say what matter intrudes on a person's privacy? A public figure such as a
member of Parliament has less privacy and less right to privacy than other individuals, but he
has the right to some privacy. Guidelines should be set, so that the commission can benefit
not only the average citizen but also the public figure. If that is the way it has to be done,
then more speed to its being done. I trust that the commission will take its function seriously
and give earnest thought to the privacy of the individual.
Members opposite spent much time criticising clause 59, which deals with industrial
unions and professional trade associations. They said the clause should not be in the Bill and
that the necessary powers are derived from industrial legislation, tribunals, and courts. If
that is so, why was it necessary for Mr R. K. Davison, Q.C., to investigate the troubles with
the union at Kinleith? The inquiry was set up by the previous Labour Government because
of reports that had been received. The union took no action. Why did the union or the
labour movement not clear up the problem? It became such a festering sore that a special
inquiry had to be conducted.
Each subclause of clause 59 relates to the kind of intimidatory practices and threatening
practices that were found to be proved in the report of Mr R. K. Davison. The member for
Kapiti mentioned some of the subclauses and quoted from Mr Davison's report, of which I
have made an analysis. Clause 59(1)(b) states that it shall be unlawful for any organisation or
anyone connected with the organisation or carrying on the affairs of the organisation to
threaten any other member of the organisation with the use of violence or with any loss or
detriment, or otherwise to indulge in any intimidatory course of action in order to induce
him to agree to a particular course of action. Mr Davison's report stated: "Certain of the
workers have attempted to use strikes and threats of strikes in an endeavour to force
management to take action against other union members." The Bill is a translation into law
of Mr Davison's findings.
Clause 59(1)(c) states that it shall be illegal for any member to be caused to suffer any
loss or detriment in order to induce him to agree to a particular course of action. Mr Davison
stated in his report that in Robb's case his employer was forced to suspend him for 7 days to
satisfy the union's demands that he be penalised. That is what subclause (c) is all about.


## p. 2303 (#759) ###########################################

17 August
2303
Human Rights Commission Bill
Subclause (a) states that it is illegal for anyone to refuse or fail without reasonable cause to
comply with any rule or procedure of the organisation.
Mr Davison's report stated that Bartlett and McKenzie failed to observe union rules on
stoppages of work, and used strikes and threats of strikes as a means to force the
management to impose penalties on other union members.
There has been proof that these clauses are needed. A special inquiry should not have to
be set up every time such incidents occur. There should be a remedy available within the law.
When this Bill has been passed, such a remedy will be available. I trust that the Bill will fit
well into our social fabric and pattern, and I wish it very well indeed.
Mr LANGE (Mangere): Would that I could be as fulsome in my praise of this measure
as the member for Lyttelton was. I simply say that I do not for a moment regard it as a great
leap forward for womankind, nor do I suspect that the Bill will have the impact, limited
though it was on New Zealand society, of Armstrong's landing on the moon. There seems to
be a fundamental misconception of what the Bill is about, and this was demonstrated by the
member for Lyttelton. She referred to clause 59. If Part VI, and clause 59, are matters of
compelling urgency, as she paints them to be, then she is urging that the House adopt by way
of substitution for the heavy sentence of imprisonment by which the crime of blackmail is
now punishable, a process of conciliation resulting in at worst a monetry penalty.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: Oh!
Mr LANGE: If the member for Waitemata is of a mind that does not allow him to
recognise in the provisions of clause 59 the ingredients of the crime of blackmail and
extortion, if he does not see in the legislation various matters canvassed by the Crimes Act
and the Police Offences Act, if he does not see in clause 59 matters that are the specific
preserve of the industrial court, then this will not be comprehensible legislation to him in any
event.
It is idle for any member to talk at length about the provisions of Mr Davison's report,
saying that it disclosed a state of affairs of national importance, and then to endorse as a
means of dealing with it a provision that decriminalises that which was complained of. I
suggest that the real motive behind clause 59 is to enable a greater level of interference in the
affairs of unions and trade associations, and, if it is pretended that it has to do with the
Kawerau or Davison matters, that is a laughable assertion.
Hon. Members: Well, laugh.
Mr LANGE: Yes, Government members are pretending that they are dealing with a
matter of urgent national moment, while they are producing legislation that is not as forceful
as existing law. I would not be surprised if the provisions in clause 59 were covered by pieces
of legislation that included penalties of up to 10 years' imprisonment. Under this Act they
are covered by the possible imposition of a modest fine. Do not let Government members
pretend that clause 59 is there for the purpose of dealing with the Davison report situation. It
is a plausible pretence, and the quizzical expressions on the faces of some of my legal
brethren opposite indicate that they are tempted to believe in their own argument, but they
know perfectly well that that is not so.
I should like to refer members to the sort of person the legislation is supposed to assist,
and to remind them that, to understand it, it is necessary to wander around with a copy of
this Bill and a copy of the Race Relations Act. The various clauses of the Bill that deal with
the types of discrimination protected against vary according to the nature of the goods or
services, accommodation or employment, being dealt with. I suggest that, if it is the
Government's purpose to produce legislation that will enable people to be certain where
they stand in regard to their rights and to be able to affirm their position, then the Bill falls
short of giving that assurance.
I suggest that the Government has not yet given the assurance that many groups have
sought—namely, that the Human Rights Commission will sit at places other than Welling-
ton. I ask the member for Lyttelton, who spoke of the way in which the Bill would advance
the position of women in our society, to observe that it makes no provision for those women
who may now be discriminated against by reason of their need to look after dependants,
whether they be young or old; that it makes no grounds for protecting from discrimination
those people who, because of their age, suffer adversity on the employment market; that in
clause 29, relating to advertising, the seeming prohibition against sexist advertising does not
cover anything except those matters canvassed in that part of the Bill, and creates no general
prohibition that would advance the status of women in our society and protect them from the
degrading advertising that we now see. In fact, in a very limited way, in the provision of
goods, services, accommodation, or employment, it would simply protect them from blatant


## p. 2304 (#760) ###########################################

2304
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
discrimination by reason of their sex.
I suggest that some of the praise lavished on the Bill may mislead people in our society
as to what exactly we are protecting people from, and what rights we are seeking to advance.
I recall the words of the honourable member for Southern Maori. It is a long established
principle of our Christian tradition that, while we might be concerned about what we would
describe as the sin, we do not necessarily become concerned or vindictive about what we
would describe as the sinner. In other words, there are people who would not accept that
people of other than heterosexual proclivity fall under the judgment of God. If we take that
view, then what mischief are we seeking to control? Had a provision been included in the Bill
to ensure that people who were perhaps of other than a heterosexual disposition would not
by reason of that be prejudiced in terms of accommodation or the provision of goods and
services, that would not mean that we as a society were endorsing the practice of sexual
conduct other than orthodox heterosexuality. It would not mean that we as a society were
endorsing molesting or bestial behaviour. We would not be passing a judgment on the acts,
nor would we, by providing that measure of protection, be allowing those acts to prosper,
flourish, or exist in an antisocial fashion.
I suggest that there is a halfway measure; and the member for Wairarapa, who is trying
to interject, is well aware of it, and outside the House would preach it from time to time. He
would have a precedent in that one could be upset about the antisocial conduct of people but
could still accept them as people who ought not to be dispossessed from their homes simply
because they are suspected of adverse behaviour. We can take that test right through in
connection with marital status, and all the other matters not covered by this legislation. I
believe that, when the House eventually comes to grips with the issue of human rights and
bothers to define them or to take a stab at defining them, it might decide that people ought
not to be prejudiced or discriminated against by reason of any strongly held conviction,
belief, or faith so long as that conviction, belief, or faith was not a danger to the society in
which those people lived. I believe that would be an acceptable test, which would cover a
large part of the types of measures supposedly encompassed in this Act.
Therein lies the disappointment with the legislation, because it does not cover those
rights that, in 1977, people ought to be able to exercise. Very blatantly, even if one does not
adopt the posture I was advocating, surely we ought to protect people who hold genuine
political beliefs, so long as those beliefs do not endanger the fabric of our society. The Bill
does not attempt to touch that. There will be people in this House who, in areas of the
country alien to those held by their own side, would have felt there was a measure of
discrimination even by reason of holding office in such conventional political parties as both
sides are affiliated to. Such a modest step would not be a small step for mankind; it would be
a slight inch forward, but even then it has not been adopted in this statute.
I want to say, as a back-bencher, that I dislike the provision in the Bill that empowers
the commission to make reports to the Prime Minister and not to members of this House, on
matters on which further legislative action is required. We, as parliamentarians, might be
entrusted with the task of judging whether further legislative provision is necessary. If those
reports are made to the Prime Minister, none of us will necessarily be given the opportunity
to make that judgment, either in Government or in Opposition, or to promote a private
member's measure to fill the void that the commission sees.
On Part V, and those matters to do with privacy, while respecting that there is an
argument for restricting the area within which personal matters may be canvassed and the
scope of those persons who would be entitled to be privy to those secrets, I suggest that
members ought to be told by the commission of its views on any further necessary legislative
measures. Until the House takes up the task of being involved in legislative change and
insists that its members be given the opportunity of judging for themselves whether
legislation is good or amendment is necessary, the cause of human rights in New Zealand will
not be advanced. We will not know, and any defect will be kept within the bosom of the
Prime Minister, who might, for perfectly proper political reasons, choose not to dissipate it,
even to those Government members who might, on receipt of it, be prompted to take
honourable stands by promoting their own legislation to fill something that the exalted
commission has considered desirable.
As I said before, we can welcome the measure because it is a first step. The difference,
as I see it, lies in what quantitative assessment we give to that step. In that respect I differ
substantially from the member for Lyttelton. I am disappointed that the legislation does not
even in its language give the assurance-to people who are now unaware of their rights and
will be hesitant to advance them-that legal aid is available in 1977 to someone who wants to


## p. 2305 (#761) ###########################################

17 August
2305
Human Rights Commission Bill
take up the matter of discrimination.
Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata): I listened with interest to the member for Mangere,
and his somewhat guarded praise for the Bill when he said that it is at least a step in the right
direction, if not necessarily the first step to some major discovery. In considering the whole
philosophy behind the Bill, it seems to me unfortunate that such legislation is necessary. It is
a reflection on today's society in so far as it has become necessary for us to introduce
legislation to deal with matters such as marital status, to consider how people should be
employed, and to offer protection in a legislative form against possible intimidation within
one's work environment. It is a sad reflection on our society that the time of the House has to
be spent on matters which would be better dealt with by people in their own relationships
outside the House.
I noticed with interest an article in tonight's Auckland Star that, I think, reflects to some
extent on the more feminine role of the Bill. It is an article by a woman setting out the views
of one Dorothy Baldwin on what is perhaps happening to the women of today. I quote from
the article, because I feel it may be of interest to the House: "Dorothy, who has a son at
university and a daughter in nursing, reserves some of her bitterest criticism for today's free
woman, and the attacks she makes on the mothering image. 'Each age', Dorothy says,
'brings its own inanities. The inanity of our age is the emergence of the woman who insists on
her right to be a mother in the biological sense, but, in the same breath, insists on the right
not to be a mother in the deepest sense." It is interesting to reflect that the women of today
are perhaps looking at this and deciding whether some of the problems for which we have to
legislate, such as sexual discrimination and the like, have perhaps been brought about by
ourselves, and, to some extent, are a waste of the time of Parliament. Instead of getting on
with other things such as running the country, preparing the way for taxation rebates, and so
on, we have to spend our time on a rather long debate, after many hours have been spent in
the select committee, on what one would have expected to be just the natural way of doing
things without having to force or compel people. However, such legislation is necessary, and
I support the principles behind the Bill.
It was interesting, too, to hear the member for Henderson referring to various matters,
particularly on the union front. I am sure he will have a good future in his new-found
occupation as a Queen's Counsel, because the way in which he tried to split up the Bill and
break down the intimidation section indicated to me that he will be capable of splitting the
hairs on a billiard ball. He talked for quite some time, and in the end said nothing except to
comment on marriage and the de facto status. I am concerned at what appears to be the
Labour Party attitude to marriage and the de facto status, and I hope that some front-bench
Labour Party speaker with some authority will, at some stage, refute the statement of the
member for Henderson, which I think I have taken down correctly. I understood him to say
that the Labour Opposition accepts that marriage has suffered a diminution in today's
society. That may be what is happening, but I am sure the Government does not accept that
the situation should be treated with complacency. As I understood the member for
Henderson, he wanted to include in the Bill some definition of the de facto status. That was
in the Bill initially, and it created quite a lot of discussion, which is the purpose of
committees, but in the final analysis it was rejected by the Government after hearing all the
submissions.
The fact that only 3 of 19 submissions on the subject were in favour of deleting that
expression is of little consequence. The quality of the submissions is of more importance
than the quantity. I hope that at some stage a member of the Labour Opposition, preferably
someone in the front benches, will stand up and say that, although the status of marriage
might have suffered some diminution in today's society, the Opposition will join with the
National Government in trying to upgrade marriage to the status it once had.
Mr T. J. Young: What is the Government doing about it?
Mr D. M. J. JONES: It is taking positive action in the Bill before us, by deleting
reference to the de facto status, and is opposing what appears to be the Labour Party's desire
to give recognition to the de facto status. The Government is taking that action in the Bill
now before us.
Women's rights are important today, and have cropped up from time to time in the past.
The Bill is yet another blow for women. I said before that it is disappointing that Parliament
should have to spend its time passing legislation of this kind, but if that is necessary at least
the Government is prepared to ensure that it is done. In fact, it is working hard to ensure
that women are not discriminated against. It introduced the Equal Pay Act in 1972. That
alone shows that it cares about the rights of women. It is also interesting to note that, in


## p. 2306 (#762) ###########################################

2306
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
establishing national superannuation, the Government ensured that women would be
treated equally, whereas the superannuation scheme promoted by the former Labour
Government would have resulted in women being treated in a very unequal manner indeed.
That reflects another difference between the two parties.
Despite the fact that I am not known for being a great supporter of women's rights, I
wholeheartedly support the provision in the Bill relating to women. My basic premise is that
it is unfortunate that society has reached the stage where legislation of this kind has become
necessary. The lady member for Southern Maori made some points about the United
Nations charter and the Human Rights Commission, and said that the Bill did not meet
United Nations requirements. I can say that the National Government has in almost all ways
complied with the United Nations requirements, and certainly as much as, if not more than,
any other country in the world has.
One of the points raised by the member for Southern Maori, although she skirted
around it to some extent, related to the International Labour Organisation. This organisa-
tion has recommended that, to provide for the freedom of the individual, there should be
voluntary unionism in all countries. Of course, the National Government has enacted
legislation in support of that principle. I noted that the member for Southern Maori did not
mention voluntary unionism, and I can only assume that she is willing to accept some
recommendations made by the United Nations but happy to ignore others. The National
Government, however, accepts all United Nations resolutions, across the board.
Our attitude was shown clearly in the United Nations itself earlier this year, when Mr
Malcolm Templeton spoke on human rights and the needs of the Human Rights Commis-
sion. On behalf of the Government, he pointed out to the United Nations Committee on
Apartheid that it would be better if that committee spent a little more time considering
human rights and considerably less time considering apartheid; it is willing to spend a great
deal of the New Zealand taxpayers' money on such matters, but is unwilling to look at the
actions of committee members representing other countries. While speaking on the subject
of human rights, the Human Rights Commission, and the United Nations, I was interested to
find when I was overseas earlier in the year and raised the question of human rights in a
Commonwealth situation, everyone I spoke to appeared to be very happy to shy away from
the topic. That is a sad reflection on other parts of the world, but it is a very bright reflection
on New Zealand that this country is bold enough to introduce legislation on human rights.
Mr O'Brien: You must be joking.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: I am not in the habit of joking, but every time I look at the
honourable member who interjected I tend to laugh. There would be few members in this
House with whom I would more willingly disagree. One area criticised by the Labour
Opposition is the provision relating to unions. I am surprised that a party which is supposed
to look after the worker-at least, that is what it says-does not want to protect a worker
who has been threatened with violence in terms of clause 59. One would have thought that
the Labour Party would have been the first movement in this country-after perhaps the
Socialist Unity Party, if one can believe all it says-to support legislation to protect the little
man from threat of violence or intimidation.
I am sure it has been a great disappointment to all the working people that the Labour
Party, the so-called party which should stand up for the rights of the little man or the worker,
will not support legislation to do that. I am sure that members of the Northern Drivers
Union have more than one meaning for something that falls off the back of a truck. I am sure
that if the type of person I am thinking of fell off the back of the truck, then no one would
stop to pick him up; he would suffer an accident in the course of his employment. During the
short time I worked on the wharves in my university days suggestions were often made that if
one worked too hard things might become awkward. That was important, particularly when
you were a seagull, but I remember that from time to time threats of intimidation came to
the fore. [Interruption.] I am pleased to see that Opposition members are alive. They are
awake at least they are not asleep. We all know what happened when the Leader of the
Opposition was speaking earlier this session-four members opposite dropped off.
An Hon. Member: The back of a truck?
Mr D. M. J. JONES: Not off the back of a truck, but I am sure that if they had they
could not have looked any less enthusiastic than they do tonight. However, I am pleased at
the great interest they are showing in this debate. As I was saying, clause 59 provides real
protection for the working man. On reflection one cannot really expect the Labour Party to
support the working man because we all know how members opposite like to support the big
union boss, and we all know how the big union boss progresses. Perhaps he works on the


## p. 2307 (#763) ###########################################

17 August
2307
Human Rights Commission Bill
wharf. Then he becomes a union delegate, and then a member of Parliament. Once he
becomes a member of Parliament members opposite have to look after him as the big union
boss, and if his seat disappears then he is put up for Papatoetoe. I am sure that is what
happened. Although we have lost the de facto clause in the Bill, we now have in the House a
de facto member for Papatoetoe. He can now claim to be that, and to some extent I am sure
that will make the Labour Party happy.
The member for Mangere said that the provisions in clause 59 are covered by the
blackmail provisions in the Crimes Act and other legislation. While that may be true, I think
his comment is very superficial, because how often will a worker who has been threatened
with violence or intimidation-
Hon. Sir Basil Arthur: You wouldn't know what a worker is.
Mr D. M. J. JONES: I know there is none on the other side of the House, just as I know
there are many on this side of the House. The member for Mangere would know what
happens if a worker is threatened and the matter is referred to the police. We all know what
happens when a worker in a union refers something to the police: everybody goes on strike.
At the first suggestion that the police want to look into a bag to see if any meat is going for a
walk, everyone goes on strike. The Bill recommends that such a matter be taken to the
Human Rights Commission, and I am sure the commissioners would act with discretion and
avoid unnecessary industrial disputes. I am sure the member for Roskill would agree that it is
better to carry out such inquiries in a gentlemanly manner without involving the police and
creating the problems that would inevitably arise.
Sexual orientation has been mentioned. The member for Mangere said it might be a sin,
but we should act with compassion. I agree with that to some extent, but I remind members
that we start off our day with a prayer, and if that prayer is to have any significance we
should base our actions on Christian principles. If we are to introduce legislation that is
contrary to Christian principles, we should also reconsider whether to start the day with a
prayer. I would not support any suggestion that homosexuality should be included in the
Bill, because I believe it is against Christian behaviour. People of a different sexual
orientation live in my electorate. I respect them, and leave them alone. They can carry on
with what they are doing, but I see no reason to give their behaviour the sanction of
Parliament.
The Bill is one of a number of achievements of National Governments-for example,
the Parliamentary Commissioner (Ombudsman) Act introduced in the 1960s, the Equal Pay
Act, the Accident Compensation Act, and the introduction of legal aid. The Bill is part of an
overall programme, and I suggest that the Opposition should consider very carefully the
comments of the member for Mangere, because quite clearly he supported the Bill.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER (Roskill): I am sure the member for Waitemata would not be
anxious for me to follow him, because he treated a very important Bill with undue levity. He
has, of course, a lot of experience with a closed-shop trade union, and is unable to practise
his skill unless he is by compulsion a member of that union.
He spent some time disparaging union leaders. He said that the Labour Party supported
the big union boss. Let me say without any equivocation that, unlike the member for
Waitemata, the Federation of Labour and its leaders enjoy my personal support. Let me say,
too, that the leaders of the Employers Federation-another union-enjoy my support.
Unlike the Government, those two important organisations are totally and unanimously
opposed to section 59. So how can we take seriously a member of a closed-shop union who
stands up in this House and supports a clause that the employers and the workers oppose? In
abusing them he does not contribute to the debate at all or practise the Christian ethic that
he propounded in his sinful confession to the House.
Mr D. M. J. Jones: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I do not think anything I said was
sinful, and I take exception to anyone suggesting that I made such a remark.
Mr SPEAKER: I am a little perplexed, but I think it would be fair to say-to take it
seriously-that to accuse someone of having made a sinful confession, if the person is
unaware, as I was unaware, of a confession having been made, is carrying it a little too far. I
suggest that the phrase be withdrawn.
Hon. A. J. FAULKNER: I have great pleasure in withdrawing it. I was, of course,
making a political reference, because it is something of a sin politically. In my judgment, it is
not Christian-I think that is the proper way to put it-to rubbish the leaders of our trade
union movements, both employers' and workers'. It lacks charity as well as reality, and I
think that charity is probably the first Christian ethic we need to practise in the House. To
give effect to that, I shall draw a veil over the contribution made by the member for


## p. 2308 (#764) ###########################################

2308
17 August
Human Rights Commission Bill
Waitemata.
The employers are quite right in rubbishing the section. The recently retired Chief
Ombudsman rubbished it. The insurance guild, not exactly known as a militant trade union
until recently, has rubbished it. Twenty-nine leaders in our community have rubbished it.
Clause 59 does nothing but bring another party into a dispute-the commission. No union
can be responsible for the behaviour of every member. No political party can stop a member
being violent. To condemn the organisation for the behaviour of one or two members is
ridiculous. What will the commission do if that matter is brought to its attention? It will
conciliate. Why can an individual member not go to the Department of Labour? Until last
year, when the Department of Labour was downgraded by legislation passed by the
Government, a person could go to the department. The legislation passed last year took
away the department's strength. The engineers' union asked for the Davison report, initiated
by the Labour Government. The Labour Government did not need a commission. The
engineers' union was found to be guiltless, but some of its members were not guiltless. No
organisation can say that every member behaves according to the rules. Provisions in the
Industrial Relations Act deal with members' behaviour.
Debate interrupted.
The House adjourned at 10.30 p.m.


## p. 2309 (#765) ###########################################

18 August
2309
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2)
THURSDAY, 18 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 2.30 p.m.
Prayers.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT AMENDMENT BILL (NO. 2)
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): I move, That the Local
Government Amendment Bill (No. 2) be introduced. The Bill is the first of a series of
measures that will co-ordinate and update the laws under which the territorial system of local
government operates. It will not be a new body of law, but will reduce the volume of local
government legislation by revising and bringing together two major Acts—the Municipal
Corporations Act and the Counties Act. At the same time, it will remove the dead wood,
and bring the powers and responsibilities of municipalities and counties into line. It will also
include sections of law from other Acts that it is considered would be more appropriately
included in a local government Act. The whole idea is to bring into one Act as much of the
law under which local authorities operate as it is practicable and sensible to do, and so to
provide a ready reference for both local authorities and the general public to the laws that so
closely affect them.
I emphasise that the Bill is only the first instalment of this major revision and
consolidation of the law. For this reason, so as to make progress on what is a very major
task, it was decided to introduce this first section as an amendment to the present Local
Government Act. As other instalments are completed—and work has already commenced
on the second instalment—they will also be introduced as additional amendments to the
Local Government Act, until we have a completed Act that is modernised and up to date.
That is why I have not attempted in this legislation to make major policy amendments to the
existing law dealing with the structure of local government.
I am well aware that there has been considerable discussion on the poll provisions in the
previous Act. These, of course, accurately repeat what we promised in our election
manifesto, but I know there are some who now think we should go further. I assure the
House that this matter, and other issues concerning the role of the Local Government
Commission, will be examined over the next few months, and any changes will be dealt with
in a separate Bill. It is obviously quite impossible for me to describe to the House at this
juncture all the matters dealt with in a Bill of this magnitude and with this range of subjects.
All I can say is that, in general, it deals with the constitutional, electoral, financial,
accounting, administrative, and procedural aspects of territorial and regional authorities.
The next stage will deal with major functional responsibilities, such as land subdivision,
water and drainage, roading, and so on. The general approach has been to instil more
meaning into the term "local government" by giving local authorities more discretion to
decide their own affairs.
I shall move that the Bill be referred to the Local Bills Committee, so that there will be
ample time for everyone to study it thoroughly, and for those who wish to make submissions
to the committee to do so. Although the initial preparatory work was done by departmental
and local authority officers working together-and I can assure the House that between
them they brought a great deal of expertise to the technical matters involved-it may well be
that some further changes are needed. The major policy issues have been discussed with the
Local Government Council, and I believe I can quite confidently say that, in general, the
national associations-the Municipal Association and the Counties Association-support
the Bill.
Dr WALL (Porirua): The Minister said, quite rightly, that with a Bill of this
magnitude-I see it has 185 pages—it is impossible for him to make a significant review of all
its provisions at this stage. From a brief glance at the Bill, which has just been made available
to me, it is apparent that most of its provisions are re-enactments of measures that already
exist. However, there are some changes, no doubt. I think the Minister could have served
the House better by indicating briefly what changes have been made. Merely shifting
legislation from one Act to another is of no great significance, but such changes as have been
made are of concern not only to the House, but to the whole community, because they so
strongly affect local government and the life of the community. It is important that the


## p. 2310 (#766) ###########################################

2310
18 August
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2)
Minister indicate at this stage what the changes are, so that those people who might be
disposed to make submissions to the committee may have some indication of the thinking of
the Government and the Minister.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): From a very brief glance at what appears to be
comprehensive legislation, it is its comprehensive nature that strikes me. Having got halfway
through the explanatory note, it seemed to me that the Bill deals largely with matters that
happen behind the doors of the local body, or council, or whatever it may be. But it also
deals with matters that are external to the council's operations-rating powers, the manner
in which contracts may be made, the sale and resale of land, and so on. Can the Minister tell
me just how far this deals with the day-to-day activities of local bodies, and what other major
spheres of activity remain to be dealt with in the second instalment? I make no pretence of
any expertise in local government, but I have some experience of local government law. At
the briefest glance, which is all that is possible, this Bill seems to occupy at least 80 percent of
the territory with which one has become familiar over the years. The Minister could perhaps
more easily tell us what is not in the Bill and is yet to be done than tell us what is in the Bill.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn): Much of the Bill deals with the qualifications for voting in local
body elections. The qualifications cover ratepayers and various other categories of people
who have a right to vote. It appears that if a person does not vote in an election his name may
well be omitted from the roll. The proposed section 77 in the new Part II states: "Principal
officer may omit certain persons from roll", and subsection (1)(a)(i) states, "Being
qualified to vote and not being a candidate, did not vote at that election"—that is, the last
election—“and (ii) Having been given subsequent notice that his name is to be omitted from
the roll, has not applied in the prescribed form for his name to be entered on the roll"
Various other disqualifications are contained in the Bill.
The Minister knows that there has been a call for the simplification of the general
election roll, and the local body rolls should be simplified accordingly, so as to rationalise the
whole system of voting in general or local body elections. Unfortunately, because of the
complications of trying to get on a local body roll, too many people are disqualified from
voting in local body elections. It becomes a denial of democracy if there is not a simple
system to allow people who live in an area to record their vote in a local body election. There
was an attempt to simplify the residential qualification for the general election roll, but I
think I saw somewhere in the Bill that the residential qualification for local body elections is
1 year. Is that correct, or does something else in the Bill qualify that? In general election
polling, the residential qualification is much less. Why did the Minister not consider the
repeated demand for the amalgamation of the local body and general election rolls, so that
certain categories of people will not be denied the right to vote? The Minister and the
Government should accept the task of making it simpler and easier for people to exercise
their democratic rights. We should not be making it difficult for people to vote in a particular
area.
The Minister stated that there are no amendments in the Bill of a major policy nature,
but that it is part of a new series, a sort of prelude to a major amendment, that will include
electoral accounting procedures, and so on. The changes will provide a mammoth task for
politicians, and for people generally, in understanding what has happened to democratic
rights in local government.
The Minister should attempt to make the whole system of local government simpler.
Future local government Bills should lead to rationalisation, as a multiplicity of local bodies
exists, one clashing with another, with a multiplicity of expenditure and people employed.
That leads to so much wasteful expenditure. Any Bill to transform the local government
mess in New Zealand must rationalise the whole system to make it more efficient and
economical. The financial burden on ratepayers can be quite onerous.
Local bodies have been placed in a rather difficult position, because the source of
finance provided by the Labour Government's superannuation scheme has been terminated.
Many local body leaders have complained that there is no finance available. Has the Minister
given any thought to increasing local body loan finance? In Auckland, there have been
continual screams from local bodies about the lack of finance to enable them to proceed with
normal maintenance work. Under the new accounting procedures mentioned by the Minis-
ter, will there be a ready source of loan finance available to enable local bodies to continue
their work?
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): As the member for Grey Lynn
has raised so many points, I think I should deal with them straight away; otherwise, people


## p. 2311 (#767) ###########################################

18 August
2311
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2)
might become confused. He asked about the preparation of the roll. The Bill provides for no
change; it will be the same as in the past. The returning officer can certainly use the general
election roll to his advantage, and, if he likes, take names from that roll. That course is open
to him, and special votes can be allowed in that way.
Rating or taxing powers are certainly included in the Bill, as is a provision covering the
petroleum tax, as has been the case in the past. As the member well knows, I am awaiting a
report from the Local Government Finance Committee, and any new form of financing to be
made available to local government will be covered in separate legislation after we have
received the recommendations of that committee.
The Bill makes no change to the franchise or qualifications of voters. A voter must be a
ratepayer or have residential qualifications, and the residential qualifications have not been
altered: a voter must have lived in the district for 1 month and in New Zealand for 1 year. I
have some notes on electoral rolls that I shall make available to the member; I am sure they
will help him. Basically, the rolls will continue to be prepared by the territorial authority.
However, the Bill includes new provisions that will facilitate the preparation of more
accurate rolls. For example, the Bill removes the existing provision under which a principal
officer can remove the name of a residential voter only if he sends a notice to that effect and
the notice is returned unclaimed. Failure to return the notice will in itself be sufficient cause
to have one's name removed from the roll. Provision is also made for the principal officer,
when preparing a supplementary roll, to include in it a list of those from whom he has
received advice since the closing of the main roll that they have lost their voting qualifica-
tion.
At intervals of not more than 6 years, a roll must now be revised as far as residential
electors are concerned. The manner in which the purge is undertaken is left to the discretion
of the principal officer. Some of the older legislation still requires the territorial authority to
take part in hearing objections to electoral rolls. That role of the territorial authority has
now been dispensed with, and objections will be considered by the principal officer. It is
considered inappropriate today that the elected body itself should have any duties what-
soever in connection with the roll governing its own election.
Two important changes should also be noted. The Municipal Corporations Act, but not
the Counties Act, at present contains a very old provision that, where a single rateable
property extends into more than one ward, it shall, for the purposes of the owner's ratepayer
qualification, be deemed to be in one ward only. That provision has been omitted, as it
appears that it is redundant. Wards exist in only a few boroughs, and the manner in which
they are defined makes it unlikely that a single rateable property will extend across any ward
boundary. The provision in the Municipal Corporations Act that a person owning separate
properties in more than one ward can be on the roll in respect of one ward only is retained,
and has been applied to all territorial authority districts. This means that the present
provision in the Counties Act that enables a person to have a ratepayer qualification in more
than one riding by virtue of the fact that he owns separately rateable properties in more than
one riding has been omitted. I hope I have answered the questions raised by the member for
Grey Lynn.
The matter raised by the member for Porirua was a rather difficult one. I could spend
half an hour of the time of the House in going through the various provisions if the member
so desired, but I think possibly the best I can do is provide him with a copy of the notes my
department has prepared. If he has any questions after reading those notes, he can then ask
them a little later on.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): One small point has struck me since I last spoke,
and I am sure it will be of interest to the member for Western Hutt, who has pleaded for
clearer and crisper legislation. One clause, admittedly the main one, runs to 146 pages.
Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay): I agree with the Minister that this is not the time to discuss
the provisions of the Bill in detail. However, the member for Porirua raised a legitimate
point. He wanted to be informed of the minor changes that are being made by the Bill. The
Minister has said that the measure makes no major changes, but the public should be alerted
to the changes that are to be made, and attention should be drawn to the fact that the Bill
proposes a major change in the structure of local government legislation. In introducing the
Bill, the Minister is obliged to explain the non-major policy matters provided for.
I have noted that provision is made for the petroleum tax to be continued. The previous
National Government introduced that tax, and it seems that the Government has no
intention of reducing it in any way. I therefore take it that the Minister does not envisage, at


## p. 2312 (#768) ###########################################

2312
18 August
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2)
least per medium of this legislation, making any grants to local authorities to assist them in
regionalisation, which was the clearly stated intention of the former Labour Government. In
his introductory speech, the Minister said that the Bill would give more discretion to local
authorities, but he did not say in which areas that discretion is to be granted. I rather feel
that it may be in the area of finance, as was mentioned by my colleague the member for Grey
Lynn.
I have looked only briefly at the proposed new section 211, but it requires explanation. I
understand it defines the way in which the proceeds of an asset renewal charge may be
applied. Under that section, it will no longer be mandatory for local bodies to appoint
commissioners to manage their sinking funds. Who will be responsible for the management
of local body sinking funds in future? Does the Bill provide another opportunity for those
people who are involved in financing or underwriting local authorities, or in advancing
money to local authorities, to have a great deal more discretion than in the past? Perhaps
those questions can wait for an answer until the Bill is referred to the Local Bills Committee.
However, it is important that, in alerting the public to the nature of this measure, the
Minister should tell us the areas in which the Bill gives effect to changes of a policy nature.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): I suggest that the member for
Island Bay read the notes I have given to the member for Porirua. However, I shall answer
his question briefly. The Bill makes no provision for functional powers; all functional powers
will be covered in the second Bill. I am interested in the member's comment that he would
like the petrol tax to be reduced. I wonder if he has consulted the local authorities in his area
about that. Is he aware that they receive $18 million a year from petrol tax to assist them in
holding rates? Was he speaking with any seriousness or was he just being a little facetious in
suggesting a decrease? If he wishes to read the clauses dealing with the petrol tax, I refer him
to page 173.
I noted the remark of the member for Henderson that clause 2 is one of the largest
clauses he has ever seen. It inserts 230 new sections into the Local Government Act, and I
cannot think of any other way that that could be done. If it is creating a record, well, so be it.
The member for Island Bay also asked whether the Bill will affect regional and united
councils. The only change of particular note is that there shall be a regional council if the
region has a population of not less than 325 000 and includes one or more cities. Hitherto,
the legislation has spoken of the need for such regions to be metropolitan areas-that is, to
be predominantly urban in character with a population of not less than 325 000. The present
law, whereby any two or more of the territorial authorities commanding most of the
population and rateable value of a region may request that there be a united council or a
regional council, irrespective of the above requirement, is continued, and the electoral
subdivision of regions under the jurisdiction of regional councils will now be known as
constituencies.
Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay): I can assure the Minister that I was not being facetious in
raising the question of the petrol tax. The question of the financing of local government was
central to the policy aims of the previous Labour Government, and it was intended that
grants to local government would be made by central government, provided that local
government regionalised beforehand. It seems that the present Government or the present
Minister cannot quite grasp the direction in which the Labour Government was moving. I
mentioned the petrol tax to indicate the policy direction in which the Labour Government
was heading and to seek some clarification from the Minister, to see if he had any sense of
policy direction in the legislation he is introducing.
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central): In welcoming the introduction of this Bill, I should
like to compliment all the officers involved in bringing together this major legislation. Can
the Minister tell me whether he provided last year for the reformation of the special
committee on local authority finance? That point was raised by the member for Island Bay.
Was that committee not abolished by the last Labour Government, and does that not
indicate that the Labour Government was really not interested in trying to resolve the very
real problems that any Government faces in trying to find a realistic and supportive
alternative source of finance for local authorities?
The House should be reminded, in talking about the petroleum tax, that we are dealing
with a sum of about $18 million, which is made available to local authorities and which allows
them to dampen down rate increases. As a result, that tax is of great benefit to ratepayers. I,
for one, am surprised at the attitude taken by the member for Island Bay, because in the past
he has shown a keen interest in local government. As a fellow Wellington member, I am


## p. 2313 (#769) ###########################################

18 August
2313
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2)
surprised that he should be advocating the abolition of the petrol tax, which, as I have said, is
a supportive source of finance for local authorities.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): The Government has certainly
no intention of reducing the petrol tax. The Labour Government disbanded the local
government committee on finance. When I first became Minister I set that committee to
work again, and I am hoping to have its report within the next few days. I should also
endorse the remarks made by my Under-Secretary about the officers who have worked in
the preparation of this Bill-particularly Mr Jack McVeagh, who came back from retirement
to help because of his tremendous experience in local government legislation. I should like to
place on record my grateful thanks to all those officers who worked on this.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Local Government): I move, That the Bill be referred
to the Local Bills Committee, and that the proceedings of the committee during the hearing of
evidence be open to accredited representatives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
ORAL ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS
Trade Unions in United States and Canada-Penalties
1. Mr MALCOLM (Eden) asked the Minister of Labour: Do any figures available to his
department reveal either court fines or civil damages imposed on or awarded against either
United States or Canadian trade unions?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The Department of Labour does not keep
statistics on this. However, I personally know of a case involving a wildcat strike by members
of the United Mineworkers Union in 1975. Judge K. K. Hall in Kentucky found that the
union was making "feeble attempts" to end the strike. He ordered a return to work and
assessed a fine of $500,000 with an additional $100,000 to be paid for every day the strike
continued. The amount payable increased to $1.2 million before the dispute was resolved.
The fine was set aside on resolution of the dispute. However, the union was found in
contempt of court and ordered to pay $500,000 to the coal operators. A similar case
involving teachers in New York City has also been reported.
Mr Malcolm: Is there any truth in the statements often made in New Zealand that the
penalty clauses which this Government returned to the Industrial Relations Act in 1976 are
without precedent?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: I can appreciate the tenor of the question. The answer could be
yes, but the circumstances are different. In the United States there is a contract agreement
under a 2-year award. There is a sanctity of contract, and I hope sincerely that the
Government's moves last Monday will lead to a similar sanctity in New Zealand.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui): A point of order, Mr Speaker. Perhaps I should have
raised this before the question was asked, but I should like to draw your attention to
Standing Order 75, which states, "Questions may be put to a Minister relating to public
affairs with which he is officially connected." We need to beware of creating a precedent by
allowing questions such as the last question, because members could then ask any Minister if
he has any information about any matter anywhere in the world. It seems to me that the idea
behind the question was in the supplementary question asked by the member for Eden and
that the supplementary question he asked should have been the original question. I cannot
see how the first question complies with the Standing Orders. We are running the risk of
creating a precedent which will open up an enormous field.
Mr MALCOLM (Eden): In many instances a Minister's department has access to
overseas information which could be of interest and value to members. The Department of
Labour could have information about ILO resolutions or figures, or comparative statistics
which could provide a real insight into a comparable situation in other countries. I submit the
question was in order, because the Minister could have information in his department which
could tend to indicate certain things here.
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The member for Wanganui has raised two
issues relating to points in the answer. The first is whether overseas fines are any responsibil-
ity of mine, and, secondly, whether the sanctity of contract mentioned has any bearing on my
portfolio in New Zealand. Within the last 10 days there has been criticism regarding the
matter raised by the member for Eden in his supplementary question in that it has been


## p. 2314 (#770) ###########################################

2314
18 August
Oral Answers to Questions
stated that there is no precedent for the penalty system introduced last year by the
Government. Some people still think that there is no comparable situation. That is fair
comment on the criticism being thrown at last year's legislation. The second part, on the
sanctity of contract, is a matter that is very germane at the moment. It has been the subject
of talks with the Federation of Labour.
Mr SPEAKER: My first comment is that we are really having an academic discussion on
a matter of history. Unless the point is raised before something is done, we merely have a
discussion on whether it should have been done. My second comment is that, in view of the
extent to which various penalties have been attacked or called into question when relating to
industrial matters, the experience of analogous penalties in other countries does seem
germane to a matter for which the Minister is responsible. Questions may be asked of a
Minister on three topics: those relating, first, to public affairs with which he is officially
connected; secondly, to proceedings of the House, which is not relevant in the present case;
and, thirdly, to any matter of administration for which he is responsible. Taking a broad
rather than a precise logical view I think the first and last rules probably justify the question.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn): A point of order, Mr Speaker. This has nothing to do with
your ruling, which I must accept, but follows on from it. The Minister made a statement on
an event in the United States about which the Opposition would have no information. I
wonder if the Minister would lay on the table the information he has on the wildcat strike by
members of the United Mineworkers Union so that the Opposition can look at it and see
how it relates to New Zealand.
Mr SPEAKER: That is not really a point of order at all, but nevertheless I want to be
helpful rather than repressive. The Minister will probably want to make the information
available, and I think it is desirable that it should be made available, but it is not a matter of
order.
Roading Programme, Highway 2
2. Mr REWETI (Eastern Maori) asked the Minister of Works and Development: Can he
indicate what plans he has for the completion of the motorway on Highway 2 between
Hairini Bridge and the Maungatapu causeway which was commenced some years ago, and is
it correct that the roading programme for the Tauranga area for the 1976-77 year is confined
only to the Barkes Corner-Ruahihi section and no further roading programme is set down
for 1977-78?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Works and Development. The motorway link between Hairini Bridge and the Maungatapu
causeway has been planned for some time and is one of a number of projects under
consideration by the National Roads Board for inclusion in its forward programme. The
roading programme for the 1976-77 year for the No. 3A District, which includes the
Tauranga area, was not solely confined to the Barkes Corner-Ruahihi section of State
Highway 29, and for 1977-78 works totalling $1,026,500 have been programmed, including
$230,000 for bridging, $622,000 for reconstruction, and $174,500 for miscellaneous works.
Mr Reweti: Is the article in the magazine Contract incorrect when it states that 13 of
the 22 roads districts have no roading construction allocation, and that the Tauranga,
Rotorua, Taupo, Manawatu, Nelson, and South Otago districts have not been given even a
token allowance for shape correction and resealing.
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I am not aware of the comment in the magazine referred to,
and I cannot confirm the accuracy of the statement. However, if it conflicts with the answer
given on behalf of the Minister of Works and Development, I would prefer to accept the
answer.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Slaughtermen-Seasonal Pay Statistics
3. Mr H. N. AUSTIN (Hobson) asked the Minister of Labour: Can he inform the House
whether any statistics are available on the average slaughtermen's seasonal pay in each of the
last 3 years?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): The only information I have as Minister of
Labour, as distinct from Inland Revenue and tax information, on slaughtermen's rates of pay
relates to payments under the national award, which applies to all freezing works. Under the


## p. 2315 (#771) ###########################################

18 August
2315
Oral Answers to Questions
award mutton slaughtermen's earnings are made up by the return from the daily tally yield
calculated at a piecework rate plus a payment for obnoxious working conditions. The
payments under the current award and the previous two awards are: current award dated
1976, lambs per 100, $31.073, obnoxious conditions, $5.709 making a total of $36.78; 1975
award, $30.481, $5.009 making a total of $35.49; 1974 award, $28.526, $4.688 making a total
of $33.21. To these payments are added various productivity bonuses negotiated on a
company by company basis. It is pointed out that these are award payments, and the highest
individual payment I am aware of amounted to $50 a day on an interim basis only during the
last season.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: Do the statistics for the 1977 year include the supposed illegal
position at Ocean Beach, and if so can the Minister advise whether any prosecutions have
been issued?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The interim payment of $50 a day applied to Ocean Beach. If the
payment was made, then prima facie it is a breach of the Wage Freeze Regulations, and the
department has asked for it to be investigated with a view towards prosecution. That would
not apply to the case of the slaughtermen, on which Government action is also pending.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Petroleum Energy Tax
4. Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) asked the Minister of Finance: Does he intend to
introduce legislation to provide for a tax to replace the suggested petroleum energy levy of
$3 a barrel, before an agreement is signed about drilling two holes in the deep water north of
Maui?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Finance. The Government's proposal for a new tax regime for petroleum mining companies
is presently being discussed with oil exploration interests who have explored, or are
continuing to explore, for petroleum in New Zealand. Legislation will be introduced in due
course if necessary when these discussions have been concluded.
Hon. F. M. Colman: Can the Minister indicate whether the delay in reaching an
agreement on the taxing proposal has been an impediment to the consortium wishing to drill
those two wells north of Maui?
Hon. G. F. GAIR: Discussions have taken place with a number of oil companies, not
just the companies involved in a proposal to drill north of Maui, and tax is among the items
being discussed.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Neurosurgical Unit, Dunedin
5. RICHARD WALLS (Dunedin North) asked the Minister of Health: Has he seen the
front-page report in the Evening Star of 10 August suggesting that Dunedin is in danger of
losing its long-established neurosurgical unit, and can he give an assurance that no such
closure is, in fact, planned?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): My attention has been drawn to the report in the
Evening Star of 10 August about the long-established neurosurgical unit at Dunedin
Hospital. I am aware that the North Canterbury Hospital Board has submitted a proposal for
the establishment of a neurosurgical service at Christchurch. The continuance of the
neurosurgical service at Dunedin is, however, the responsibility of the Otago Hospital
Board, and so far as I am aware that board has every intention of maintaining the service.
Richard Walls: Has there been any suggestion about the speculation in the newspaper
article that these developments might affect the placing of a body scanner at Dunedin?
Hon. T. F. GILL: None whatsoever. One of the reasons why Dunedin was phased into
the scanner programme was that it has a long-established and very fine neurosurgical unit
that can make very good use of the scanner. I cannot contemplate how anyone in his right
mind would think that the Otago Hospital Board would be closing the unit down, but it is the
board's responsibility and the questions should be addressed to the board. I am sure any
questioner will receive a very short sharp answer from the board.
Mr Hunt: Will the Government provide the necessary funds to enable the Otago
Hospital Board to maintain the neurosurgical unit in Dunedin?
Hon. T. F. GILL: The hospital board has the funds. There is no question about any lack


## p. 2316 (#772) ###########################################

2316
18 August
Oral Answers to Questions
of funds, and there is no threat to that very fine neurosurgical unit.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Rugby Tours and "Bridge Building"
6. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) asked the Minister of Recreation and Sport:
Does the Government on a sober appraisal of the recently concluded Lion's tour still adhere
to the belief that exchanges of national rugby teams are conducive to "bridge building” and
promote harmonious international relations?
Mr Lithgow: A point of order, Mr Speaker. I should like you to look at the question and
evaluate it on two points: first, the words "on a sober appraisal, and secondly, whether it is
asking for an opinion.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: I am not sure what the relevance of the first point is. I trust the
Government is always sober, and that the answer is a sober one. As for it being a matter of
opinion, not long ago this was proclaimed to be official Government policy. Whether it still
is, is one of the points I wish to ascertain.
Mr SPEAKER: The term "on a sober appraisal", particularly on the explanation given,
is quite superfluous. If the question were, "Does the Government still adhere to the
beliefs...?", that would produce the right answer. But rather than spend time I will permit
the question and we will get on with it. There are a lot of questions.
Hon. D. A. HIGHET (Minister of Recreation and Sport): I could answer facetiously and
say that those of us who saw the fourth test are still suffering from a little hangover from
watching it, and are not yet able to give a sober appraisal of the tour. Speaking seriously, I
assure the honourable member that, although for the past few weeks the Monday meetings
of Cabinet have been known to consider and evaluate the fortunes and misfortunes of the
British touring team, I cannot say that it has found time for the overall sober appraisal to
which the member refers. Personally, I am sure that when the Lions have forgotten the rain,
the mud, and the disappointments of the 1977 tour they will remember that New Zealanders
share with them a great love for the sport of rugby football and in that, as in much else, we
have a common cultural bond, which I hope has been strengthened by this visit.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: Did the Minister happen to see this passage in the New Zealand
Herald of 12 August: "It was entirely in character with the less fortunate aspects of their tour
that as Williams lay in agony a number of adult spectators standing by a fence 30 or 40 yds
away jeered at him"; and does the Minister think this contributes to understanding between
different people.
Mr SPEAKER: A question with the words "and does the Minister think", is carrying it
too far and is clearly a request for an opinion. I rule the question out and call question 7.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
New Zealand Superannuation Scheme-Refunds
7. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Minister of Finance: How many people
benefited through direct refund from the abolition of the former Labour Government's New
Zealand superannuation scheme?
Hon. J. B. GORDON (Minister of Labour): I reply on behalf of the Minister of Finance:
Up to 25 March 1977 the Department of Inland Revenue had paid refunds to 601 830 former
direct contributors to the New Zealand scheme. In addition, in the period to 29 July 1977,
13 976 transfer values held by the New Zealand Superannuation Corporation have been
returned. The total number of refunds made by other schemes is not known.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Is it not a fact that the money received by the people was not a
benefit from the Government, but a refund of their own contributions, and can the Minister
indicate when the rest of the contributors who are waiting for refunds will receive them?
Hon. J. B. GORDON: The answer to the original question was that the money was a
refund paid as promised, and it amounted to $31,480,000. The transfer values amounted to
$2,004,000.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Trespass Act, Section 9(2)-Police Appearances
8. Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson), on behalf of Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR


## p. 2317 (#773) ###########################################

18 August
2317
Oral Answers to Questions
(Timaru), asked the Minister of Police: On how many occasions have the police been called
upon to appear and conduct proceedings on behalf of the informant, under section 9(2) of
the Trespass Act 1968?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Police. "Police offences statistics do not distinguish between offences recorded under the
various provisions of the Trespass Act 1968, thus it is not possible to provide the information
sought in the question. Such information could possibly be obtained by a manual search of
police records throughout New Zealand, but it would be a very time-consuming task.
Offences in total under the Trespass Act are recorded in the Police Department's annual
report to Parliament. If the honourable member is in real need of the information he seeks,
then I am sure the Police Department would attempt to sift through its records to produce it.
It would, however, be quite a major task and the accuracy of the data produced could not be
guaranteed."
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Russians Landing in New Zealand
9. Mr D. M. J. JONES (Waitemata) asked the Minister of Defence: Has he seen the
article in the New Zealand Herald of 4 August, entitled "Red landing claimed in Australia”;
and, if so, does he have any knowledge of similar landings in New Zealand?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Defence. His answer is as follows: "I have read the New Zealand Herald article of 4 August
which reports the unconfirmed landings by Soviet personnel on Australian territory. I have
also noted an article in the Canberra Times of 4 August in which Mr Peacock, the Minister of
Foreign Affairs, dismisses the allegations made of Russian spying activities. In the New
Zealand area a close watch is kept of all Soviet maritime activity, and I can confidently say
that there has been no unauthorised landing on the New Zealand mainland."
Mr Hunt: If we had New Zealand frigates sailing equidistantly around the New Zealand
coastline it would mean one ship would pass Auckland every 4 days. Is the Minister
completely confident that no landings have in fact occured?
Hon. DAVID THOMSON: The reply of the Minister of Defence states, "I can
confidently say that there has been no unauthorised landing on the New Zealand mainland.”
The supplementary information states that on 21 April 1973 a helicopter from a Soviet
whaling mothership made a brief landing on Raoul Island in the Kermadecs as the whaling
fleet passed on its way back to the Soviet Union. This incident was investigated and was
assessed as being nothing more than an innocent, if unauthorised, landing.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Health Services Advisory Committee
10. Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) asked the Minister of Health: As it is now 9 months
since the publication of the most recent bulletin of the Special Advisory Committee on
Health Services, can he tell the House what the committee has been doing since then?
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): The committee made a preliminary visit to
Northland at the end of 1976 to ascertain local interest and attitudes towards a pilot scheme
for the reorganisation of health services in the area. Since February 1977 the committee has
met monthly, and principally it has been giving its attention to the preparation of a
discussion document for the Northland pilot project. The document is now nearing comple-
tion, and the committee hopes it will be possible to make it available for study in Northland
and to visit the area again for fuller discussions towards the end of the year. The committee
has also been considering operational aspects of the plan, and recognises the key importance
of finance, personnel, the preparation of staff for a reorganised health service, and legal
machinery. In addition, other facets of the health service to which the committee has given
its attention include computer reorganisation within the department and the welfare of the
aged.
Mr Marshall: Is it the committee's intention to continue with the publication of
bulletins, and, if so, could the Minister say when the next bulletin might be released?
Hon. T. F. GILL: In accordance with the Government's policy of doing its planning out
in the open where everybody can see it, the committee has been empowered to make such
press releases and statements as it thinks fit without any reference whatever to the Minister


## p. 2318 (#774) ###########################################

2318
18 August
Oral Answers to Questions
as to frequency or content. I shall not be giving it any indication or direction as to when it
should issue such a bulletin.
Hon. M. Rata: As the Minister has said that the report is to be completed shortly, will he
make the report available to Northland members of Parliament?
Hon. T. F. GILL: I did not say that a report would be completed shortly. In any case, it
would not be my report. The committee, if it does make a report, will make it available to
the public, the press, and everybody concerned if it considers that is the right thing to do.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Agriculture-Economic and Production Statistics
11. Mr FALLOON (Pahiatua) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What steps has the
Government taken to improve the collection and usage of economic and production statistics
from agriculture in order to make decision making by the Government, using up-to-date
information, more effective?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): The Government is very conscious of
the need for up-to-date and informative agricultural statistics as an aid to policy formation.
To this end efforts have been directed towards a greater degree of co-ordination in the task
of statistical collection and in the conduct of field surveys as well as the increased use of
sample surveys where appropriate. The same objectives can be secured in part by the more
rigorous analysis of existing statistics. An example is the work of the joint industry-
Government agricultural review committee, which examined the latest production, cost, and
financial information early this year. The results of its work have been valuable as a guide to
policy formation, in particular in the development of policies based on selective incentives
designed to stimulate production.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
1080 Poison with Apple Pulp Attractant
12. Mr ROGERS (Onehunga) asked the Minister of Agriculture: Will he advise whether
his departmental officers are carrying out, or will carry out, investigations into the apple pulp
attractant or bait being used with 1080 poison by pest destruction boards that is apparently
causing secondary poisoning of native and other birds through the consumption of insects
attracted to the baits?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): Preliminary trial work by the New
Zealand Forest Service indicated that raspberry lure used with 1080 impregnated jam bait
may have been contributing to some bird losses. Use of raspberry lure has consequently been
discontinued by the pest destruction movement. My colleague the Minister of Forests and I
recently instructed our departments to prepare a comprehensive report on the poison 1080,
the terms of reference of which include reviewing the effectiveness of existing procedures
relating to the use of 1080 to protect adequately human health and non-target species such as
birds, and the adequacy of research into the use of 1080. This report will establish whether
additional research into any aspect of the use of 1080, including the use of lures with baits, is
needed.
Dr Shearer: Can the Minister confirm that some of the studies by the Nature Conserva-
tion Council showed that the number of native birds in proportion to the total number of
birds was extremely small?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE: That is my understanding.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Farmers-Finance for New Development
13. Mr ELWORTHY (Oamaru), on behalf of Mr ELLIOTT (Whangarei), asked the
Minister in Charge of the Rural Banking and Finance Corporation: How much money was
lent to farmers for new development in Northland in the 1976-77 year?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister in Charge of the Rural Banking and Finance Corpora-
tion): The Rural Bank does not keep full separate statistics for Northland, which forms part
of its Auckland branch district. However, loans authorised through its Whangarei suboffice
during the year ended 31 March 1977 for all development purposes amounted to $4 million.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2319 (#775) ###########################################

18 August
2319
Oral Answers to Questions
Environmental Procedures-Urgent Overhaul
14. Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori), on behalf of Mr PREBBLE (Auckland Central),
asked the Minister for the Environment: How long has he had the results of the "urgent
overhaul" of environmental procedures promised in the Christchurch Star on 28 February
1976, and when does he expect to bring the new procedures into effect?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister for the Environment): I have made it clear on a number
of occasions over the past year or so that I do not propose to amend the impact assessment
and reporting procedures until the revision of the Town and Country Planning Act is well
advanced. I consider it most important that the relationship between the procedures and the
revised legislation is clear and widely understood. Now that the Bill proposing amendments
to the Town and Country Planning Act is close to introduction to the House, I expect to
decide on amendments to the procedures shortly.
Hon. M. Rata: Can we take it that, in spite of the statement made on 28 February 1976,
the overhaul was not as urgent as had been expected?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: No, the member cannot make that assumption. I am sure the
procedures were and are in need of urgent overhaul, but they need to be related to the
revision of the Town and Country Planning Act. The introduction of the amending Bill has
taken longer than was anticipated.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Post Office Capital Programme
15. Mr WELLINGTON (Manurewa) asked the Postmaster-General: What was the cost
of the capital programme for the Post Office for the years 1975 and 1976 respectively?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Postmaster-General): The capital expenditure of the Post
Office for the years 1974-75 and 1975-76 was $56 million and $78.3 million respectively.
Mr Fenton: How much borrowing was needed to sustain that level of capital expendi-
ture?
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON: I speak from memory here. For the year 1975-76 it was more
than $60 million. I cannot recall the figure for the earlier year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Roads Board-Finance
16. Mr HUNT (New Lynn), on behalf of Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga), asked the
Minister of Works and Development: As the National Roads Board has asked him, as its
chairman, to advise the Government that the board cannot do its job or plan confidently
with the present finance available to it, has he conveyed this to his Government colleagues,
and, if so, what does the Government propose to do to overcome the shortfall in finance
available to the board?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND (Minister of Housing): I reply on behalf of the Minister of
Works and Development. His answer is as follows: "At the request of the National Roads
Board I recently conveyed to the Government the concern felt about the level of the board's
income, the effect of rising costs, and the resultant difficulties the board has in its forward
planning. I received a reply from the Prime Minister indicating that the problem of funding
the National Roads Board is currently being reviewed by the Government, and giving an
assurance that the Government recognises the need for continuing consultation with the
board and myself on this and related issues."
Mr Hunt: As the Minister has informed the National Roads Board that he has put
proposals to the Government, does this include proposals for expenditures in the
supplementary estimates, thus indicating the present financial year?
Hon. E. S. F. HOLLAND: I am unable to give details of the reply that has been
received, but I refer the honourable member to the latter part of the answer, which indicated
that the funding of the National Roads Board is at present being reviewed by the
Government.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2320 (#776) ###########################################

2320
18 August
Oral Answers to Questions
Ruakura Animal Research Station-New Abattoir
17. Dr SHEARER (Hamilton East) asked the Minister of Agriculture: What is the
present position regarding the erection of a new abattoir at the Ruakura Animal Research
Station in Hamilton?
Hon. D. MacINTYRE (Minister of Agriculture): The existing abattoir at Ruakura is
inadequate, and the Government has been planning to replace the existing facilities with a
new complex that would better cope with the increasing number of research projects being
carried out at the research centre.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
National Superannuation and Telephone Concessions
18. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare: Since
the recent adjustment to national superannuation, how many people will have now lost their
half telephone rental concession, and what does this represent as a total loss per annum to
these people?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): As a result of substantial increases
in the rates of national superannuation and the abolition of the means test, 29 453
superannuitants now receive an income in excess of the statutory limit where telephone
concessions are payable. Rather than a loss of income, as suggested by the questioner, these
superannuitants have in fact received a net increase on an annual basis of $4.7 million.
Hon. Michael Connelly: Could the Minister answer the question that was put to him?
What has been the loss to these people through the loss of their half telephone rental
concessions?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: In no way can an increase of $4.7 million mean a loss to anyone
in that category.
Mr Downie: Can the Minister confirm that all the people who lost their telephone rental
concessions as a result of the income increase would have lost their concessions under the
Labour Government, which set the income criterion?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The limits were in operation when the National Government
took office, and, had a beneficiary's income been up to that level, that beneficiary would
have lost the concession.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: What is the saving to the Department of Social Welfare from the
sum that it now does not need to pay to the Postmaster-General for the 29 000 people who
lost their half telephone rental concession?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: The savings to the people concerned are increases to the value of
$4.7 million a year.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
Income Tax Rate on Incomes under $2,000
19. Mr SCHULTZ (Coromandel) asked the Minister in Charge of the Inland Revenue
Department: What was the income tax rate prior to 1973 on incomes which did not exceed
$2,000, when did an increase take place, and by how much?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I reply on behalf of the Minister in
Charge of the Inland Revenue Department. His answer is as follows: "The actual tax rates
for taxable incomes up to $2,000 were as follows: 1972-73 tax year, the rates of income tax
were on the first $650, 7.85c in the dollar; on the next $1,050, 21c in the dollar; and on the
remaining $300, 24.5c in the dollar. The following changes were made in subsequent years:
1974-75 tax year-on the first $500, 18c in the dollar; on the next $500, 18.5c in the dollar;
and on the remaining $1,000, 19c in the dollar. In the remaining tax years, 1975-76 and 1976-
77, the rates were 19.5c and 20c in the dollar respectively. I should add that these basic rates
are subject to the deduction of special exemptions and rebates."
Mr Schultz: Would the Minister agree that these tax increases, imposed by the Labour
Government, for people on low incomes have since been more than offset by the concessions
in the Budget?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Yes, it is perfectly correct that at this level the last two
Budgets would have assisted a considerable number of taxpayers-but bear in mind that
these are very low incomes.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.


## p. 2321 (#777) ###########################################

18 August
2321
Oral Answers to Questions
National Superannuation and Television Concession
20. Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram) asked the Minister of Social Welfare:
Following the recent adjustment to national superannuation, how many people will have
now lost their half television licence concession, and what does this represent as a total loss
per annum to these people?
Hon. H. J. WALKER (Minister of Social Welfare): As a result of substantial increases
in the rates of national superannuation and the abolition of the means test, approximately
24 500 superannuitants now have an income in excess of the statutory limit where a televis-
ion concession is payable. Rather than a loss of income, as suggested by the
questioner, these superannuitants have in fact received a net increase on an annual basis of
$4.4 million.
Hon Michael Connelly: Will the Minister now confirm that, through the loss of the half
telephone rental concession and half television licence concession, between 20 000 and
30 000 pensioners have lost about $1.5 million a year?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I can confirm that, as a result of national superannuation and the
increase that takes effect as from today, 24 500 superannuitants are better off to the extent of
$4.4 million. If it would help the honourable member, I can also confirm that national
superannuation when it was introduced represented an increase of $16.5 million up until 31
March 1977, since when there will be a further estimated increase to superannuitants of $167
million by the end of this financial year, making a total increase of $183.5 million to
superannuitants since the introduction of national superannuation on 9 February 1977.
Mr Comber: Will the Minister confirm that one of the principles embodied in national
superannuation, introduced by the National Government, is to eliminate for all time the
income test, which is implicit in the question asked by the honourable member for Wigram?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: I can confirm that; but, judging by statements made by Labour
members in recent weeks, it would seem that, if it ever had the opportunity, a Labour
Government would reintroduce the income test.
Mr SPEAKER: Order! That has nothing to do with the question.
Hon. Michael Connelly: If it is the Minister's view that taking money away from people
makes them better off, does he propose to recommend to the Minister of Finance that
income tax be increased in order to make the people of this country more wealthy?
Mr SPEAKER: That question is not in elucidation of the answer given.
Mr Bell: Could the Minister confirm that the figures in the original answer work out to
an average of $173 a head, and that the half television licence concession amounts to $12.50 a
head?
Hon. H. J. WALKER: Yes, in round figures that would be a correct assessment. I would
emphasise again that, as a result of the adjustment to national superannuation taking effect
from today, the 24 500 superannuitants concerned will receive an increase of $4.4 million on
an annual basis.
Question transferred to Supplementary Order Paper.
APPROPRIATION BILL-ESTIMATES
Legislative, $4,405,000.
In Committee
Legislative Department
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) said that the last Administration had instituted
the opening of select committees to the press, and that move had been followed, but not with
noticeable enthusiasm, by the National Government. Much valuable work was done in
committees. There had been a tendency recently to supplement the standing committees
with ad hoc committees. Committee members had increasingly made themselves available
outside Wellington, and so witnesses had not had to travel to Wellington; that was a step
forward. It would be a forward move if more work was given to parliamentary committees, if
their work was done in the open, and if they travelled outside Wellington. The work of the
subcommittees of the Public Expenditure Committee was of public interest.
He knew the Hansard administration had been hampered because of the installation of
the computer at the Government Printing Office, but did the hold-up lie with the computer,
25 Vol. 412


## p. 2322 (#778) ###########################################

2322
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
or its integration into the Government Printing Office? A colleague had reported a delay of 6
hours between making his speech in the House and receiving his Hansard typescript. The
delay was not attributable to the staff, but an early return of the Hansard typescript was
desirable, to correct any misapprehension if a member's words in the House were chal-
lenged. Could the Minister give an assurance that the delay would be reduced to a
minimum?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said there had been considerable delay
since the installation of the computer at the Government Printing Office. There had been
delays in the printing of the Order Paper and Bills, as well as of Hansard, although those
delays had recently been reduced considerably. Hansard copy was prepared in the building
and made available to members as soon as possible to enable minor corrections before it
went to the Government Printing Office. Any delay would be inside the building. The time
in receiving the Hansard copy had varied over the years, but was now longer than before.
Little could be done about that. The Hansard copy was usually received within a reasonable
time earlier in the day.
Select committees were first opened to the press in the 1960s, and more committees had
since been opened to the press. There were good reasons why some committees should not
be opened to the press, whose presence inevitably affected witnesses. It was undesirable that
some evidence be given in public, and to say that a committee could at any time exclude the
press was not sufficient, as it was not known what evidence would be given. The press should
not be present at hearings where some of the evidence was confidential, but committees
were now more frequently open to the press; that would continue when appropriate. It was
disappointing that the press often reported sensational aspects, rather than the substance of
the evidence. The order of reference for the Public Expenditure Committee had been set up
in 1961, and since then the effectiveness of the committee had increased markedly.
Vote, $4,405,000, agreed to.
Audit Department
Vote, Audit, $2,775,000, agreed to.
Prime Minister's Department
Prime Minister's Department, $790,000.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition) said that, if the previous sums
voted for the Commission for the Environment were excluded, the amount to be voted
represented an increase of 118 percent in two years. How had the structure of the
department changed, how many people in the department were under contract, how many of
those who had joined the department under contract had left in the last 18 months, and for
what reason? An economist who had joined the department from the banking system had
left, presumably to return to the banking system; had he been the architect of the
Government's higher interest policy? The Prime Minister had previously been unenthusias-
tic about such policies, and had stated in a book he had written: "Against the advice of most
of my advisers I clung to a low interest rate policy for New Zealand. I was never convinced of
the efficacy of interest rates as an economic regulator in our relatively unsophisticated
system, but I was very conscious of the effect of high interest rates on costs. I believe that our
savings performance in recent years proved my point." The country had recently suffered a
complete reversal of that policy, which had cost sections of the community very dearly. Why
had the economist who was reputed to be the architect of that policy left the department?
In the 1975 financial year, two members of the Prime Minister's Department had
travelled at a cost of $3,064. In the 1977 financial year, 14 had travelled at a cost of
$26,949-which represented an increase of 780 percent. The escalation had continued,
because $51,000 was provided in the estimates for travel, transport, and communications.
Did that figure include the cost of sending the Prime Minister's chief press officer to Europe?
What had been the specific task of that press officer, and what had he undertaken that could
not have been achieved by an officer of New Zealand House or the head of the Prime
Minister's Department, who travelled with him? The number of press officers in the
department had increased from four to six, at a time when the Minister of Finance had
required other departments to reduce staff ceilings. What did the press officers do? It was
understood that, at a meeting between the Public Service Association and a Minister, the


## p. 2323 (#779) ###########################################

18 August
2323
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
association had objected strongly to the presence of the Prime Minister's chief press officer
during negotiations. The sum of $93,000 voted for professional and special services repre-
sented an increase of $20,000 over last year's vote; the House would be interested to know
the exact nature of those services.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said that the permanent head of the Prime
Minister's Department and his immediate staff now numbered four, compared with two in
1975. The figures in each case included the official secretary to the Governor-General; so
that there were now three staff members who worked directly for the Prime Minister, instead
of one. The additional members were a secretary-typist and an investigating officer, who
were carrying out work that had previously been done in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and
who were presumably taking the same number of man-hours. In essence, their salaries
represented a transfer from the vote for Foreign Affairs to that for the Prime Minister's
Department.
Three more were employed in the Cabinet office, making an increase from 22 to 25.
Only one represented additional staff; the other two dealt with an increased work load. One
officer liaised with the State Services Commission-work previously carried out by the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Prime Minister's private office now had five members.
compared with three when the Leader of the Opposition had been Prime Minister. In the
previous Government, the Minister of Finance had had a full office staff; but, as Prime
Minister also holding the Finance portfolio, he now had two more personnel to service that
part of his administration.
The press office now had a staff of six, compared with a staff of four when the Leader of
the Opposition had been Prime Minister, but one of the positions had not been filled and
only one extra person was attached to the press office, which also carried out work for
Ministers who did not have their own press secretaries. He could not make a comparison
between the number of Ministers who now had their own press secretaries and the number of
Ministers in the former Labour Government who had press secretaries attached to their own
office. There had been an increase in the liaison group or, as it was sometimes called, the
advisory group, which now had a staff of seven and one vacancy compared with a staff of
four when the Leader of the Opposition had been Prime Minister. However, the Leader of
the Opposition had stated last year that he had intended similarly to revamp the Prime
Minister's office. The number employed in the External Intelligence Bureau had increased
from 31 to 32, and the bureau was also now carrying out a little more work.
The total staff of the Prime Minister's Department had increased from 66 to 79. One
officer had left the department several months ago, as his 1-year contract had expired; he
had been replaced by another officer who, although he had once been a departmental
officer, had come from private industry, again on contract. A second officer, who had been
the chief economist of the Bank of New Zealand, would be leaving the department to return
to that bank the next day, because his contract had expired.
The Government's interest policy had not been suggested by that man, but had been
included in section 20 of the National Party's 1975 election manifesto, which had stated that
a National Government would make interest rates more flexible and would bring controlled
interest rates closer to uncontrolled interest rates. The employment of the officer from the
Bank of New Zealand had been part of the Government's short-term strategy. A low interest
rate policy was ideal. However, if the country had an accelerating and probably permanent
rate of inflation, and if interest rates did not match that rate to some extent, its whole
financial system could break down. The rate of inflation had to be lowered, but, until it was,
it was not possible to accept returns that were so much out of line with the real rate of
inflation. Different remedies had to be applied to meet different circumstances, but those
remedies were certainly not the brain child of the officer who had been attacked by the
Leader of the Opposition. They had been contained in the National Party's election policy,
and had been carried out.
The item for travel had increased because an officer had been acting as liaison officer
with the Government of Bahrain. The concept of a free port at Bahrain was very imaginative
and envied by other countries. That officer had paid five or six necessary visits to Bahrain,
and was a member of the Joint New Zealand-Bahrain Committee that had set up the free
port. It was usual that a press officer travelled with the Prime Minister of the day, and each
time he had been abroad as Prime Minister he had taken a press officer with him, who had
been most valuable in putting New Zealand's point of view to the press in other countries.
On the last occasion, he had gone to the United Kingdom with the permanent head of the
25.


## p. 2324 (#780) ###########################################

2324
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
Prime Minister's Department. Before the Heads of Government Conference in London, the
Government had wanted to counter the propaganda circulated about New Zealand's attitude
to sport; the press officer had been most useful in doing that, along with his own efforts as
Prime Minister. That had led to the Gleneagles Agreement, which had tidied up the
situation to the satisfaction of all Commonwealth countries. At the meeting in Kuala
Lumpur, the Japanese Prime Minister had had 150 press officers with him, while the New
Zealand Prime Minister had had one, along with three other New Zealand press personnel.
Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) asked why the $147,000 voted for general administration in
1974-75 had had to be trebled to $531,000. The amount to be set aside for personnel had
increased from $123,000 under the Labour Government to $314,000, and the amount to be
spent on materials, supplies, and services had also increased considerably, from $16,000 in
1974-75 to $154,000 for 1977-78. He believed an explanation was called for.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said that the vote had increased because
the Prime Minister's Department had taken over work previously carried out by other
departments. The amount spent on travel had increased because, whereas previously an
officer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had travelled overseas with the Prime Minister,
he now took with him an officer with suitable expertise from the Prime Minister's Depart-
ment. The number of staff in the department had increased by 13; the increases included one
in the External Intelligence Bureau, three in the Cabinet office, two in the office of the
permanent head, and three in the advisory group. The personnel in the advisory group were
more senior than those employed by the Labour Government; it could be, therefore, that
their salaries were higher.
Mr COURTNEY (Nelson) said that the Prime Minister's Department had been usurping
the role of other Government departments. The Labour Government had spent $5,000 for
professional services to the department, but the National Government would spend $91,000
this year. The services of the departmental heads, who had served successive Governments,
had not been used, because the Prime Minister had brought people from outside into the
department. Members of the Prime Minister's Department had travelled with Ministers, but
they had also travelled alone, representing the Prime Minister and speaking for him at
functions. At the recent conference of the New Zealand Federation of Commercial Fisher-
men in Christchurch, a Mr McFaull had spoken after the Minister of Fisheries, the member
for Lyttelton, and himself. Mr McFaull had said that he was not a politician but had brought
greetings from the Prime Minister, who had a personal interest in fishing.
He was concerned about the activities of the department's personnel in the next year. If
the activities of the previous 12 months continued, how could the Opposition counter them?
The Opposition was concerned that the National Party's election fund would be subsidised
by the $790,000 to be voted for the Prime Minister's Department.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Deputy Prime Minister) asked the Leader of the Opposition
if he would be prepared to disown the accusations and allegations made by Opposition
members. Three journalists had been appointed by the Leader of the Opposition when he
had been Prime Minister. Employees on contract to the Prime Minister's Department had
been employed in accordance with the practice of the State Services Commission; they were
first-class officers, but their political allegiance was not known. Mr McFaull had been invited
to speak at the conference because he had played an important part in developing a worth-
while policy to encourage fishing.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) said that it would be a sad day for the House and for
the country if members were not entitled to ask questions about the staff of the Minister
whose estimates were being discussed. Perhaps the Prime Minister would recall asking more
personal questions 2 or 3 years ago. How many visits had been made by members of the
Prime Minister's Department to Bahrain? When had the visits taken place, and how much
had they cost? Had the visits taken place before the original agreement with Bahrain, which
had since been scrapped? A scheme had been designed at a cost originally estimated to be
between $2 million and $5 million, but recently it had been reported that the cost was likely
to be only $1 million.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said that Mr McFaull, who had repre-
sented the Prime Minister's Department at the fishing conference in Christchurch, was a
very able officer. He had been invited to speak because he had to leave the conference early.
He, as Prime Minister, did not know, and was not interested in, the political allegiance of his
staff, although one individual had been a private secretary on his staff when he had been
Leader of the Opposition and he assumed that officer supported the National Party; but he


## p. 2325 (#781) ###########################################

18 August
2325
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
had been told that they were not all National supporters. They had been selected because
they were among the ablest men in the country for the jobs they were doing. They were paid
under the item for professional fees, and their salaries were calculated in exactly the same
way as those of similar people brought into the department by the Labour Government.
The member for Northern Maori, as Minister of Maori Affairs, had brought in a man
called Hohepa, and when the then National Opposition had asked what Dr Hohepa was paid
the answer had been that he was paid an appropriate amount. His own answer to questions
about people appointed to the department by the National Government was the same. The
only difference was that the member for Northern Maori had known the political allegiance
of Dr Hohepa. The Labour Prime Minister had known that a man named Willing, his private
secretary, who had been brought in from outside the Public Service, was a member of the
Labour Party, and had in fact been a Labour candidate at the last election. No member of
the Prime Minister's Department would make a political speech, but they would, as did
other public servants, make speeches when asked to do so on matters for which they were
responsible. It was no credit to the Labour Opposition that two of its most junior back-
benchers had made scurrilous attacks on the staff of the department. Departmental officers
were very angry, and one at least was contemplating legal action. He was certain that the
Leader of the Opposition was gravely embarrassed by the actions of some of his back-
benchers in the past 2 or 3 weeks.
The original Bahrain proposal had been for an entirely new port facility in an area that
was to be reclaimed. Two or three months ago it had been found that the water was not as
deep as had been anticipated. There was a dredging problem, and the Bahrain Government
had said it would not proceed with the free port scheme, but would give an area of the
existing port. Obviously that would not cost as much. The location was better, but in every
other respect the proposal was the same. It was a joint venture between the Governments of
Bahrain and New Zealand, but the New Zealand Government would move its share over to
appropriate exporters and others who were interested. The committee to run the scheme
would consist of three people from Bahrain and three from New Zealand, with a Bahrain
chairman-the Minister of Development, Yusuf Shairawi, who had been to New Zealand
twice and who was the driving force behind the scheme. The scheme had been recognised as
a wonderful opportunity.
Mr McFaull was interested also in the co-ordination of shipping between New Zealand
and the Gulf, particularly Bahrain, and on his visits to that part of the world had talked with
the various shipping lines about the service. The New Zealand Shipping Corporation also
was interested in the service.
Hon. W. W. Freer: How many trips have been made, and at approximately what cost?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON said that Mr McFaull had made four or five trips, and
another officer had made one. Four people had made trips, which probably comprised two
officers of the department, the permanent head, who had been there with him, and himself.
Two visits had been made in the 1977-78 year, but had not yet been brought to charge. The
cost had been simply the fare back and forth, as accommodation would not have cost much.
He had been the guest of the Government of Bahrain. To his knowledge, Mr Revell, who
was the chairman of the Export-Import Corporation and on the committee for bringing
together the port facility, had travelled there two or three times.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Deputy Prime Minister) asked if the Leader or the Deputy
Leader of the Opposition would dissociate the Labour Party from the serious charges that a
senior public servant was a political appointee, politically motivated and politically biased.
These accusations by Opposition members had been made public. One Opposition member
had apologised and withdrawn the comment. Would the Deputy Leader of the Opposition
be prepared to do the same on behalf of the Labour Party?
Hon. R. J. Tizard: I'll do nothing on behalf of somebody else. I'll accept my responsi-
bility.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS said that the silence of Opposition members gave consent to
the allegations.
Vote, $790,000, agreed to.
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service
Security Intelligence Service, $1,110,000.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) said that the removal by the Security Intelligence Service of


## p. 2326 (#782) ###########################################

2326
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
classified papers that it claimed had been wrongly included in the papers acquired by Sir
Walter Nash in the years 1957-60 was suspicious. Seventeen years had elapsed since Sir
Walter had been in charge of the service, and after his death 9 years ago the papers had been
passed to the Public Trustee, who had made them available to Professor Sinclair for the
writing of Sir Walter's biography. He thought that the Security Intelligence Service had
interfered unduly with part of New Zealand's inheritance by gaining access to Sir Walter's
papers for the pupose of removing any that could be embarrassing to the service. He had
reason to believe that more papers had been taken other than the highly qualified documents
mentioned. He suggested that a better procedure should be found to prevent the papers of
other leaders from falling into the hands of the Security Intelligence Service. It appeared that
the papers of a prominent person were held for at least 10 years in custody before the public
was given general access, and Sir Walter's papers could have been held for 20 years with the
consent of the Public Trustee.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said he deplored the totally unwarranted
attack made by the member for Hutt on the Security Intelligence Service. The papers had
not been wrongly in the hands of Sir Walter Nash, who had been the Minister in charge of
the service and had been entitled to peruse them, but he should have returned them after
perusal. It had been the custom for the Minister in Charge of the New Zealand Security
Intelligence Service to receive reports from time to time, and to return them immediately.
At the time those documents had been stamped "Please return by safe hand to the Security
Intelligence Service before . . .", with an appropriate date given. It was no discredit to Sir
Walter Nash that he had had the habit of retaining papers. Such papers had included
documents from the Security Intelligence Service, and would no doubt have been eventually
returned. When given access to those papers, Professor Sinclair had signed an agreement
stating that before he used any confidential documents he would refer them to the
originating department, which happened to be the Security Intelligence Service. The service
had then stated that the documents should have been kept in its custody. Although it had
tried to have extracts from those documents removed from the book, the publishers had
refused, and no further action had been taken. Crown Law opinion had been that the
documents should be returned to the service for safe custody. The suggestion that the service
had taken anything to which it was not entitled was unwarranted. The papers had been
returned to the service.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition) said that yesterday, in answer
to a supplementary question, the Minister had said the papers had been wrongfully in the
possession of the late Sir Walter Nash. He himself had had long acquaintance with the
subject, because he had known Professor Keith Sinclair for more than 30 years. He also
knew of two of the incidents mentioned in the book, and had referred similar cases to the
then Prime Minister, Sir Walter Nash, on behalf of constituents. One case had involved the
naturalisation of a man who had been in New Zealand for 20 years, and who had a New
Zealand-born wife and four New Zealand-born children. He had been denied naturalisation
for something he was supposed to have done when he had been a starving refugee.
The second instance had concerned an application for migration to New Zealand by a
Yugoslav who had had relatives in this country. The word of a Catholic priest in Stratford
had been taken to refer to the communist tendencies of his uncle because he did not attend
the Catholic church. On that basis the Yugoslav had been denied entry to New Zealand. In
both instances Sir Walter Nash had told the Security Intelligence Service that he would make
the decision. The papers had been relevant to the biography of Sir Walter Nash, and had
shown a very important facet of his character. Although the Minister had not mentioned it,
the, Public Trustee had also obtained legal opinion, and had considered that he should not
surrender the documents. The Minister in charge of the department had a right to the
papers.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Which department?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD said that Sir Walter Nash had been the Minister in Charge of the
Security Intelligence Service at that time. When he had been Minister and had considered it
important to retain papers he had done so, regardless of what had been stamped on them.
He still had some of those papers. He was sure that Sir Walter Nash had felt justified in
holding on to the papers to back up his decision in case it was later challenged. They had
been important to the biogapher, and were important to the archives. He was concerned that
the Security Intelligence Service had tried to make changes to the final copy of a book in
print.


## p. 2327 (#783) ###########################################

18 August
2327
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Deputy Prime Minister) said he questioned whether a
Minister who had been in charge of the Security Intelligence Service, temporarily or
permanently, should state publicly that he had some papers that had been sent to him by the
service.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: No, not from the service, but from my own department, as a Minister
of the Crown.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS said that he had misunderstood the honourable member.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said that the member for Hutt had asked
yesterday, "Can the Prime Minister confirm that Sir Walter Nash was in possession of these
classified papers wrongly?" He had replied, "That, in essence, is my impression." Today,
the member for Hutt had said that Sir Walter Nash had come into possession of the papers
wrongly. He had not; he had come into possession of them as Minister, but had wrongly
retained them. A Crown Law opinion had been obtained to the effect that the papers should
go back to the Security Intelligence Service. When he himself had become the Minister in
Charge of the Security Intelligence Service, the procedure for dealing with secret documents
had been explained to him by the same man who had been director in the time of Sir Walter
Nash. The procedure was to read them, and an envelope was provided for their return.
The Deputy Leader of the Opposition had publicly expressed his opposition to the SIS
on more than one occasion, and was on record as saying, "They are stupid, they waste
money, and they should be abolished." It would be a very sad day for New Zealand if the
Deputy Leader of the Opposition ever became the Minister in Charge of the Security
Intelligence Service. There would be a complete cessation of the flow of intelligence from
New Zealand's allies. The Security Intelligence Service had become aware that classified
papers had been in Sir Walter Nash's archives when Professor Sinclair had carried out his
agreement to consult with the originating department.
Sitting suspended from 5.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m.
Vote, $1,110,000, agreed to.
Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Foreign Affairs, $82,350,000.
Hon. W. W. FREER (Mt. Albert) said that the Gleneagles Agreement had clarified the
Government's current position. Opposition members welcomed the agreement, because it
was in line with the Labour Party's policy and thinking. For many months the Minister of
Foreign Affairs had tried to commit sporting bodies to the policy to which Opposition
members subscribed. However, it was regrettable that the Minister had forfeited his
responsibilities to the Minister of Recreation and Sport and had not made personal contact
with the footballers invited to South Africa to point out the seriousness of the international
situation. The decision would then have been theirs.
He had been very disturbed to learn at a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee that
the cutback in the ministry's travelling expenses had resulted in restrictions being placed on
diplomats in important areas. It was ridiculous that money could be found to enable
members of the Prime Minister's Department to travel from New Zealand to the Middle
East on trading matters, but not enough money was available to enable the ambassador
stationed in Rome to travel frequently to the Middle East. Members of the Public
Expenditure Committee had been told that a number of ambassadors had not been able to
fulfil their full responsibilities, and a note received from the ministry had mentioned that in
the past 3 years the ambassador in Washington had been able to make only three visits to
Mexico, to which country he was accredited. At a time when negotiations were proceeding
for a substantial purchase of meat from New Zealand by Mexico, New Zealand's official
representatives were unable to visit that country because of the restrictions on travelling
expenses.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister) said it was incorrect to allege forfeiture of
responsibilities under the Gleneagles Agreement. New Zealand's efforts at the Common-
wealth Heads of Government meeting had been totally successful, and the Gleneagles
Agreement had been the result. The obligations accepted under that agreement had been
carried out to the letter, and that was being accepted by Commonwealth Heads of
Government as they became aware of what the New Zealand Government had done since
the signing of the agreement.
Mr Hunt: Mr Trudeau?


## p. 2328 (#784) ###########################################

2328
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON said he had received a personal letter from Mr Trudeau,
thanking him for co-operation at Gleneagles and commending him on the action taken. The
suggestion that the Minister of Foreign Affairs rather than the Minister of Recreation and
Sport should have written to sporting bodies overlooked the fact that the Minister of Foreign
Affairs had not been in the country at the time messages had been sent. The Government's
action had been fully accepted, and its policy was intact. At Gleneagles it had been accepted
that the Government would not withhold passports from New Zealanders, nor refuse visas to
people invited to New Zeaaland. The former Labour Government had refused visas to a
couple of Taiwanese boy scouts and some African athletes, but near election time had given
a visa to Barry Richards, an African cricketer.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition) said that the Prime Minister
would not admit that everything he and his Government had done before the Gleneagles
Agreement had been wrong. National Party members had been in favour of sporting
contacts with South Africa, but claimed that the Gleneagles Agreement contained what they
had always meant. Why had the amount to be voted for travelling expenses of New
Zealand's overseas representatives been cut? A former National Government Minister who
was ambassador in Rome had been unable to keep in touch with the Middle East States
because of lack of finance, while representatives of the Prime Minister's Department had
been allowed to travel. Why? How often had the ambassador in Ottawa, another former
Cabinet Minister, been in the Caribbean? Why had the activities of all New Zealand's
overseas representatives been limited by restraints placed on them by Treasury?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that the amount to be voted
for travel by heads of missions was $250,000, compared with $203,000 voted in the previous
year and $151,000 in the last year of the Labour Government. The Labour Government, in
its last year in office, had cut the amount for travel for heads of missions from $163,000 voted
the previous year to $151,000. The National Government, however, recognised the import-
ance of overseas travel in the pursuit of trade. The larger sums were spent in Rome, Vienna,
and Washington. The former National Minister who was the ambassador in Rome was a very
good ambassador, as had been the former Labour Government Minister who had been the
ambassador. Mr Halstead, the ambassador in Rome, had been several times to Iraq, Saudi
Arabia, and Egypt.
Each of the rugby players who intended going to South Africa had been made well
aware of the contents of the Gleneagles Agreement. It had appeared in the newspapers and
they had known about it from discussions with Mr Don, but, despite that, they had decided
to go. He, as Minister, was not prepared to adopt stand-over tactics. In no other country had
the question of sporting contacts with South Africa caused so much public debate. At the
time of the Heads of Government Conference in Britain, Federation Cup matches, in which
South Africa was involved, were being played, but many attending the conference had been
unaware of that until they had returned home. Opposition members should contemplate the
publicity there would have been in New Zealand in similar circumstances. There was in New
Zealand an abhorrence of apartheid; not only was it against tradition, but it was also against
the law. Not many other countries could say that. Every person had the right to travel, and
that principle had been recognised in the Gleneagles Agreement. The five New Zealand
rugby players travelling to South Africa did not have the support of the Government. They
had made their decision as individuals, as they were free to do. Opposition members spoke
about the difference between the policy of the Labour Government and that of the National
Government, but the Deputy Leader of the Opposition had said on radio that in the final
analysis a Labour Government would have withdrawn passports. A few hours later,
however, when told he had been wrong, he had said his statement had been misinterpreted.
Mr HUNT (New Lynn) asked whether Government members thought Norman Kirk had
been wrong in cancelling the 1973 Springbok tour of New Zealand. It had been said that
every member deplored racist sport. Did the Under-Secretary to the Minister of Recreation
and Sport deplore racist sport?
Mr Comber: Yes, I do.
Mr HUNT asked why then had the Under-Secretary quite willingly attended the
farewell for the All Black team that had toured South Africa a year or two ago? Was the
Minister aware that yesterday the Secretary of Foreign Affairs had stated that the work of
heads of mission had been seriously affected by the amount voted for travel? How many
times had Mr Dean Eyre, the Ambassador for Canada and the Caribbean, visited the
Caribbean since he had been appointed to that position? How many times had the Prime


## p. 2329 (#785) ###########################################

18 August
2329
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
Minister granted applications for Taiwanese boy scouts to visit New Zealand? Personnel
stationed overseas had been told by the Government to cut back on travel expenses. Last
year, $2.4 million had been spent on transport and communications, and the increase to $2.8
million this year would not cover inflation. The Government had restricted travel by
diplomats to several important areas.
Mr BRILL (Kapiti) said that Mr Kirk had been wrong in cancelling the 1973 Springbok
tour. Most Government members believed that Mr Kirk, because he had been a politician
and not a sportsman, should have neither cancelled nor promoted the tour. Decisions on
sporting fixtures had to be made by the sporting organisations and the individuals concerned;
that had been National Party policy in 1975. It had been said that before the last election the
National Party had favoured sporting tours with South Africa; it had not said it would force
people to go to South Africa, but that a National Government would allow individual
sporting bodies to make their own decisions. That policy had been carried out, and had been
agreed to at Gleneagles. Opposition members could not understand that the Government
should not tell its citizens what they should do about sporting tours. Apart from the fact that
the Minister of Foreign Affairs had been out of the country at the time, surely it was
appropriate for the Minister of Recreation and Sport to contact sporting organisations about
the Gleneagles Agreement. The Minister of Recreation and Sport was the member of
Cabinet responsible for sporting organisations.
The Opposition had argued that New Zealand's ambassadors had not travelled suffi-
ciently. The amount allocated in the Budget for ambassadors' travel was $250,000; in 1975 it
had been $151,000, and in 1974, the second year of the Labour Government, $163,000 had
been allocated. The Labour Government's approach had, therefore, been to cut back on the
travel of ambassadors.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn) said that the Labour Party endorsed the Gleneagles Agree-
ment, which was an adoption of present Labour Party policy as enunciated first by the late
Norman Kirk. Would the Minister dissociate himself from the members of the National
Party who had said they would back the invitation to five New Zealand rugby players to visit
South Africa? It had been reported that the British Government had written to the Welsh
rugby union asking it to advise three Welshmen who were expecting to play in South Africa
to observe the Gleneagles Agreement. The agreement stated that each government would
vigorously combat apartheid by withholding support, and by taking every practical step to
discourage it. Did the Minister of Foreign Affairs consider he was vigorously combating
apartheid, and that he had taken every practical step to prevent or dissuade five rugby
players from visiting South Africa? Would he write to the rugby players and ask them not to
go to South Africa?
It was the Minister's responsibility to ensure that sportsmen who intended to visit South
Africa were fully aware of the contents of the Gleneagles Agreement and of what it meant.
Why had a notice of motion on the Gleneagles Agreement been on the Order Paper for a
considerable period but had not been debated? Was it because the Government had been
embarrassed by the recent statements on television by the member for Hastings, the member
for Wairarapa, and the member for Invercargill that they were in favour of New Zealand
rugby players going to South Africa?
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Minister of Broadcasting) said he believed that ordinary
sensible New Zealanders had a stake in the Gleneagles Agreement. They were citizens of a
constitutional democracy, and maintained their right to operate freely within the law,
including the right to travel. The National Government would not interfere with that
principle. He understood the concern of other Commonwealth countries. The Government
had stood firmly against apartheid and sporting contacts with South Africa, and members
had supported the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs in that task. The
Gleneagles Agreement acknowledged New Zealand's proud tradition of individual freedom.
Admittedly, one walked a tightrope in maintaining the principle of individual freedom in a
world where it was not well understood. New Zealand detested apartheid, but New
Zealanders must be treated as free men, and their good sense must be relied on to decide
sporting relationships with South Africa. As a result of the work done by the Prime Minister
and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, other Commonwealth countries understood New
Zealand's position, which had been misrepresented by some New Zealanders who had put
across the wrong story. Some New Zealanders were not as sensitive as they might have been,
and should study the position more carefully.
He would not be a member of a Government or a party that wanted to cut across the


## p. 2330 (#786) ###########################################

2330
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
right of individual freedom, which was far too precious to be given away. New Zealanders
had become increasingly aware of the need to protect their rights and freedoms. They had
become increasingly aware of the position in South Africa, and of the need to separate
themselves from apartheid; they could be trusted to work out the position without strident
sensationalism or attacks on Ministers and members who were striving to protect the real
interests of New Zealanders. He said he hoped that members would realise that that was
what the Gleneagles Agreement was about.
Hon. M. RATA (Northern Maori) said that no one with any knowledge of the subject
would disagree with what the Minister of Broadcasting had said. Members would recall the
Minister's interest in apartheid, but he should direct his comments to some of his colleagues.
The Minister had been a party to the election policy that had stated: "If the rugby union
wishes to invite the Springboks to New Zealand we will make them welcome." People had
been given the impression that National members would not interfere with sporting contacts.
No one disagreed with New Zealanders' right to liberty, but the Under-Secretary to the
Minister of Recreation and Sport had declared the Government's support of the tour of
South Africa, and it was on that basis that many overseas people had viewed New Zealand's
position. For the first time in her history, New Zealand had needlessly faced international
embarrassment. Would National members have disregarded advice given by the New
Zealand Police? The Minister of Foreign Affairs had denied the House an opportunity of a
proper debate on the Gleneagles Agreement. Did the Gleneagles Agreement have the full
support of every Government member? The National Government had been elected on a
promise to parley with apartheid sport. It had then been confronted with a difficult
international situation. An article in the Dominion had stated that the National Party caucus
was deeply concerned about the drift in Government policy on the matter of sporting
contacts with the Republic of South Africa. Did the member for Hastings, who had said he
would resign if there was a change of policy, subscribe unequivocally to the Gleneagles
Agreement?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that, although his attitude
had changed, people were still free to make their own decisions. Members opposite wanted
to deny people such freedom. Many people had not read the statement that had come from
Gleneagles, but his colleagues agreed with it. Did members opposite agree with it? The
statement declared that the Commonwealth countries which embraced peoples of diverse
races, colours, languages, and faiths had long recognised racial prejudice and discrimination
as a dangerous sickness and an unmitigated evil, and were pledged to use all their efforts to
foster human dignity everywhere. The whole history and tradition of New Zealand was
against racial discrimination.
At their London meeting, the heads of Government had reaffirmed that apartheid, in
sport as in other fields, was an abomination and ran directly counter to the declaration of
Commonwealth principles, which had been enunciated at Singapore on 22 January 1971.
The heads of Government were conscious that sport was an important means of developing
and fostering understanding between the people, especially the young people, of all
countries. He was sure that the member for Northern Maori would be the first person to
agree that sport and physical contact in rugby had played a very important part in building
that tolerance in New Zealand. New Zealanders spoke about the contribution that sport had
made, but were also aware that, apart from other factors, sporting contacts between New
Zealanders and the nationals of countries practising apartheid in sport tended to encourage
the belief, however unwarranted, that they were prepared to condone that abhorrent policy,
or were less than totally committed to the principles embodied in the Singapore Declaration.
The declaration had further stated that, regretting past misunderstandings and difficulties
and recognising that those were part of the result of inadequate inter-governmental
consultations, they had agreed that they would seek to remedy the situation in the context of
the increased level of understanding that had been achieved.
The Gleneagles Agreement reaffirmed the countries' full support for the international
campaign against apartheid, and welcomed the efforts of the United Nations to reach
universally accepted approaches to the question of sporting contacts within the framework of
that campaign. The agreement went on to say that, mindful of those and other considera-
tions, it was accepted that it was the urgent duty of each Government to vigorously combat
the evil of apartheid by withholding any form of support for, and by taking every practical
step to discourage, contact or competition by their nationals with sporting organisations,
teams, or sportsmen from South Africa, or from any other country where sports were


## p. 2331 (#787) ###########################################

18 August
2331
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
organised on the basis of race, colour, and ethnic origin.
He firmly believed that most New Zealanders subscribed to the Gleneagles Agreement.
The Government walked a tightrope between the abhorrence of racial discrimination and a
determination to preserve the freedom of the people of New Zealand. In the two African
countries he had visited he had found it difficult to persuade people to understand the
importance attached to that freedom. Subsequently, people had said that the Government
had cleared people to travel. It was obvious that there was a misunderstanding of the
significance of the issuing of a passport in New Zealand. It was not a question of clearing
somebody to travel to another country; a citizen had a passport and was free to travel where
he wished. The Government would continue to preserve freedom while making clear its
abhorrence of racial discrimination.
Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central) said he was concerned at the meagre increase in
the amount for travel for personnel at overseas posts. Several important areas with which
New Zealand was trying to develop trading links were not receiving normal attention or
assistance from the Government because of its restrictions on diplomatic travel. Such posts
included the Middle East, which was administered from Rome; Scandinavia, which was
administered from The Hague; Eastern Europe, excluding the USSR, which was adminis-
tered from Vienna; Mexico, which was administered from Washington; and Jamaica, which
was administered from Ottawa. Because of the lack of financial assistance, trade oppor-
tunities were being lost in those areas. The Middle East was a classic example, in so far as the
Government was restricting the travel of the Rome ambassador, who looked after Bahrain.
During the present year, 60 percent of the bilateral aid would go to the South Pacific.
Although the Government had recognised its responsibilities in the area, it had failed to
meet the needs. The Island economies were small and fragile, and had a limited capacity for
accepting aid. It was not suggested that the aid should be decreased, but just handing over
money would not solve the problems. Money given in the past had been spent for the wrong
purpose. Why not give machinery and equipment, and send skilled operators, instead of
money that could be used for the wrong purpose? Pacific countries needed help in both trade
and migration. The Prime Minister had recognised that principle at the PBEC conference in
Christchurch in May, when he had said that no amount of aid could take the place of
opportunities for trade. It would appear that the aid vote to the Pacific had been increased in
an effort to redeem the National Government after the overstayers affair.
The Government had claimed in the Budget that it was helping to broaden the economic
base of Island communities, and create new employment and job opportunities in the area.
That scheme had been totally unsuccessful; only one company had attempted to take
advantage of it. The incentives provided were not even equal to those provided to encourage
regional development in New Zealand, yet manufacturers in the Islands would have
enormous problems. The Government had not attempted to help the Islands to develop
markets apart from New Zealand, which was very limited and could not possibly hope to
absorb everything produced by Island countries. The establishment of an industry in the
Islands would carry a greater risk of capital investment, and greater costs and difficulties in
terms of quality control, marketing, and the provision of management, than would a similar
scheme in New Zealand. The Pacific Islands Industrial Development Scheme would not
succeed until the Government provided more adequate safeguards for investors. From the
Islands' point of view it had a number of drawbacks.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that, although a cash
contribution had been made to Niue and the Cook Islands, most Pacific aid was in the form
of projects to promote the countries' economic development. They set their own priorities,
and New Zealand helped where possible. Western Samoa was being assisted with forestry;
the Australian Potlatch Timber Company had been taken over. In 1977-78, $70,000 would
go to the Alafua College poultry unit, which would get further contributions in the next 2
years. Assistance had been provided with village dairy equipment, beef cattle, artificial
insemination, pasture development, and agricultural machinery; and at Westec with machin-
ery maintenance. Banana industry research and an abattoir feasibility study had been
undertaken. Some people had criticised New Zealand's detailed investigation of projects and
had said it should give the cash and let the Islands spend it as they would. New Zealand had
even been accused of adopting a colonial attitude.
The vote for travel by heads of missions was $250,000, compared with $203,000 last year
and $151,000 in the final year of the Labour Government, which had been less than the


## p. 2332 (#788) ###########################################

2332
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
$163,000 voted by that Government the year before. Although it would be advantageous for
heads of missions to visit more frequently the areas to which they were accredited, the fact
was that they were visiting them. Somebody had said that the High Commissioner in Ottawa
had not been to the Caribbean. That was not so; he had been. There were restraints, but the
Government would expand the vote as soon as possible.
Dr WALL (Porirua) said that the Minister's only contribution had been to explain his
difficulty in getting African nations' understanding of New Zealand's foreign policy,
particularly its attitude to South Africa. Most New Zealanders were concerned that there
appeared to be a different attitude towards New Zealand's sporting contacts with South
Africa from that of, say, Great Britain or France. That was not because Africans did not
understand, but because they understood the situation very well indeed. Britain and France
had not made the issue a political one, and elections had not been fought on it. The
politically astute Africans were saying that Britain and France were being honest and
keeping politics out of sport, but New Zealand had made sporting contacts a political issue.
The whole argument was about politics in sport; and that had been started by the New
Zealand Government.
Severe repercussions would result from the Government's failure to do everything
practicable to implement the Gleneagles Agreement. If it was practicable for Australia to
implement the agreement, why not for New Zealand? Had the Minister contacted the
Palmerston North school that had intended to send a team to South Africa? If the
Government had been able to convince that school that it was not in New Zealand's interests
to send the team, why was it impracticable, after the Gleneagles Agreement had been
signed, to write and explain the position to sportsmen who intended to visit that country.
The inhumane treatment of sportsmen in South Africa was not the only concern.
Indeed, very much more concern was being expressed about the lack of consideration being
given to events in Indonesia. There was no doubt that wholesale slaughter and the
imposition of colonial rule were taking place in East Timor on a scale seen nowhere else in
the world in recent years, and certainly never in the Pacific. Australia was in a turmoil and in
great difficulties because it was a next-door neighbour. The New Zealand Government
simply wrung its hands, and continued to give aid to the Indonesian Government rather than
to the people of East Timor. The training of Indonesian pilots would be of direct benefit to
that Government, and surely provided an opportunity for the New Zealand Government to
exert pressure on Indonesia to give a degree of independence to the East Timorese and stop
shooting them down like dogs. The Indonesian Government should be told that New
Zealanders would not tolerate the imposition of colonialism upon another independent
people through the barrel of a gun.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that the 10 Indonesians
being trained as commercial pilots by the National Airways Corporation would be employed
in the pioneer air system servicing the outlying areas of Indonesia, and were vitally
important to that country's development. There was no doubt that many East Timorese had
been killed. The Portuguese Government had simply abdicated and left the different factions
to fight, and hundreds of people had died as a result. The National Government had adopted
exactly the same attitude towards Indonesia as had the former Labour Government. He had
urged the Foreign Minister of Indonesia to admit United Nations observers to ensure active
self-determination by the people of East Timor. Was it the Labour Party's policy to make aid
available conditionally? The Government's aid programme was designed to improve the
well-being and standard of living of the Indonesians. Certainly they needed help, and the
New Zealand Government was helping them.
Squadron Leader DRAYTON (St. Albans) said that in the last 20 months the role of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs had been downgraded. The small increase in the vote would not
keep pace with the rate of inflation. The role of the Minister had also been downgraded,
because so often he had had to pick up the bricks dropped by the Prime Minister. Why had
the department's staff ceiling been reduced from 544 at 31 March 1977 to 536 for the current
year? Departmental officers had told the Foreign Affairs Committee that 8 personnel more
than the previous staff ceiling of 544 were required if the department was to carry out its
functions properly. Would the Minister consider that recommendation sympathetically?
New Zealand's ambassador in Washington was unable to make sufficient visits to
Mexico to further trade relations there. The ambassador in Rome, who was also accredited
to the Middle East, was unable to cover that area properly. New Zealand's ambassador at
The Hague was also accredited to the Scandinavian countries, and other New Zealand


## p. 2333 (#789) ###########################################

18 August
2333
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
representatives were accredited to different countries. The ambassador in Ottawa was
supposed to cover the Caribbean. More positions should be created or greater provision
made for travel.
Why had New Zealand abstained from voting on the adoption of the environmental
modifications convention which aimed to prohibit the use of techniques that would cause
substantial environmental modifications—a strange euphemism for the destruction of
property?
Mr COMBER (Wellington Central) said it was incredible that Opposition members
should raise the question of East Timor in 1977 when the invasion had occurred in 1975
during their term in Government. Perhaps they had found their consciences after the recent
visit by an Australian. Did the Opposition support the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights 1948, which stated in article 13(2) that everyone had the right to leave any country
including his own and to return to his own country?
The National Government had achieved many successes in foreign affairs, such as the
inclusion of agriculture in the OECD pledge for the first time, and the ANZUS pact, under
which the United States had conceded that economic help to New Zealand was of
importance to the United States. The Law of the Sea Conference was another success story,
as were the test ban treaty talks. The opening of the Bahrain post and the upholding of the
right of the State of Israel to exist in peace were other successes. He applauded the
Government's decision to upgrade the consulate in Athens, which he had visited last year.
He totally supported the upholding of the United Nations resolution to try to bring peace to
the unhappy island republic of Cyprus.
Mr O'BRIEN (Island Bay) said it was a Labour Government that had protested to the
United Nations about the invasion of Cyprus, which was a Commonwealth country. If the
Government was so concerned, why had the Universal Declaration of Human Rights not
been appended to the Human Rights Commission Bill? The Minister had answered a
question on East Timor in the same way as another Tory, Neville Chamberlain, had
answered a question on Czechoslovakia. East Timor was entitled to self-determination, and
New Zealand had abandoned it to Indonesia. Indonesian expansionism had confronted
Malaysia, seized West Irian, and sought West Borneo. The Prime Minister had talked about
Taiwanese boy scouts visiting New Zealand, but his Government had prevented Taiwanese
businessmen from coming to New Zealand, despite the fact that Taiwan was its third biggest
trading partner in the Far East.
The Middle East had been serviced from Rome, but now it would be serviced from
Bahrain, despite the Minister's earlier promise that the first diplomatic post would be
opened in Cairo. The decision had been made because of the proposed development of a
port in Bahrain, but that had fallen through. Was the Minister being advised by entre-
preneurs rather than by departmental specialists? Bahrain had originally been exploited in
1923 by a speculator in concessions, Frank Holmes. That would appeal to the Government,
because it was a supporter of all speculators. New Zealand should be dealing direct with the
Arab States it was trading with, and should not ship goods to a country that would merely
take a percentage.
Mr LUXTON (Piako) said that the member for Island Bay should look at the map in the
Evening Post, which showed how strategically placed Bahrain was. It was the centre of a
region of some 80 000 000 people, and had as its neighbours six of the world's major oil-
producing countries. It had been claimed that insufficient money was spent in servicing New
Zealand's markets. Since May 1974 the New Zealand ambassador in Washington had made
three official visits to Mexico, and further visits were planned. In 1975-76, $151,000 had been
made available for travel by New Zealand's overseas representatives, in 1976-77 the amount
had been increased to $203,000, and in the estimates this year $225,000 had been set aside.
For public buildings and construction, $1 million had been made available. Five staff
houses had been commenced in Apia last year at a cost of $80,000, and in Kuala Lumpur the
conversion of a former official residence into a new chancery had been completed at a cost of
$150,000. A new official residence in Suva had been completed at a cost of $290,000, and in
Washington $140,000 had been spent on design work and architect's fees. If a suitable
residence in London could be found for the High Commissioner it would be purchased. How
much money could be raised from mortgages on properties that New Zealand owned in
Niue, Port Moresby, Suva, and Washington? Could the Government mortgage the assets
and use the valuable overseas exchange?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson) said that both sides of the House had been in


## p. 2334 (#790) ###########################################

2334
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
accord with the text and the spirit of the Gleneagles Agreement. The Government had been
tardy and perhaps reluctant about its conversion to the point of view of the Labour Party.
When the Prime Minister had attended the Pacific Basin Economic Council meeting on 10
May 1977 he had said that the relief of poverty and suffering in the Third World nations
could be accomplished if the more affluent nations made their markets available to the
products of poorer countries, and that no amount of aid could take the place of opportunities
for trade; not only would the aid be insufficient, but it could turn a nation into a permanent
international mendicant, and strip away the intangible essential dignity that should be the
birthright of all peoples of the world. New Zealand's behaviour at the three conferences held
in Nairobi, Cairo, and Geneva to set up a common fund to aid Third World countries
showed that it had dragged its feet.
New Zealand had earned the reputation of being aligned with the big trading nations,
the developed nations, but had shown little practical sympathy for the developing ones. Fine
words had been spoken, but little sympathy had been given to the "mendicant nations". The
aid budget for 1977-78 was $51 million, the same as the amount voted last year. New Zealand
had moved further away from the target of 0.7 percent of gross national product recom-
mended by the United Nations. Under the Labour Government in 1975-76 the vote had been
equivalent to 0.58 percent, in 1976-77 it had been 0.44 percent, and in 1977-78 was 0.36
percent. The allocation of $51 million represented a drop in cash terms from the allocation
made by the last Labour Government, but in real terms aid had dropped by 25 percent for
recipient nations, because inflation had been running at up to 15 percent. Despite a total
Budget increase of 19 percent, the aid vote had not been increased sufficiently to allow for
inflation.
When the Prime Minister had attended the Prime Ministers' conference he had said that
the search for a means of closing the economic gap between rich and poor would be a subject
of interest to Commonwealth leaders, and that he intended to lend his strong advocacy.
Little had been done. For the second year in succession the National Government had
deliberately cut the proportion of multilateral aid. The vote had been reduced from $13.5
million in 1975-76 to $7.75 million this year. The reduction belied the Government's
promises and undertakings. A gap had to be bridged, but little had been done to shorten the
bridge the Labour Government had put over the gap. When would an indication be given
about the report of the committee chaired by Sir Clifford Plimmer?
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that it was correct that the
National Government had reduced overseas aid in its first year. The Labour Government's
decision to increase the aid programme in 1973 had been explained in the 1973 Budget,
which had stated that New Zealand's balance of payments position was one of unparalleled
strength. At the end of May 1973, New Zealand's foreign exchange reserves had been a
record $1,059 million. The nub of the overseas aid question was not the giving of the money,
but whether the goods produced as a result of the aid received would be accepted on the New
Zealand market. The opportunities for developing nations to export to New Zealand had
increased under the National Government, and the generalised scheme of preferences.
Under the Pacific Islands Industrial Development Scheme the Government had first to clear
the way with New Zealand manufacturers and establish the extent to which products from
assisted industries in the Pacific could be allowed into New Zealand. It was easy to give cash
when it was readily available, as it had been to the Labour Party in 1973, and he was pleased
that the Labour Government had increased overseas aid. But if a Labour Government were
writing a Budget in 1977 it would find different circumstances.
Money had been borrowed overseas for buildings. In Teheran $500,000 had been
borrowed to buy a building; $700,000 had been borrowed in Sydney; money would be
borrowed in Washington, and the Government would continue that policy. He was very
interested in the Bahrain proposal, because he had been there at the end of last year and
discussed with a New Zealander, Mr Bromiley, the opportunity to establish a free port, and
the implications for New Zealand. He had telephoned the Government from Bahrain, and
suggested that a New Zealand official go there as soon as possible. There was every reason to
believe that a causeway would be built between Bahrain and Saudi Arabia. There were
trading opportunities with the Gulf States, and exciting trading prospects.
Reference had been made to New Zealand's abstaining from a United Nations vote on
the convention on the modification of the environment. New Zealand had not had an
opportunity to participate in drafting or to influence the text, and it was necessary to register
an objection in such a case. The resolution had been prepared fundamentally by the great


## p. 2335 (#791) ###########################################

18 August
2335
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
powers, and it had been a case of accept or not. The text would outlaw major modifications
to the environment. New Zealand had been concerned about indecision in the drafting, and
the opportunity for lesser modifications that could cause a great deal of damage and harm,
and it had registered its disapproval of the manner in which the convention had been drafted,
and of its content. That did not mean that New Zealand would refuse to ratify; it had wanted
to record its feeling that the resolutions could have been better dealt with.
The Government's refusal to allow Taiwan businessmen entry to New Zealand had been
mentioned. Those who presented themselves as representing the Government of Taiwan
were not permitted entry but others could come. The Labour Government had initially
decided to recognise the People's Republic of China, and had known that the cost would be
that it should cease to recognise Taiwan. The National Government recognised only the
People's Republic of China, whose Vice-Minister of Foreign Trade was in New Zealand at
present and with whom he had had discussions. There was every reason to believe that the
progress made in trade would continue.
New Zealand had not been alone in reducing aid. With the aid vote expressed as a
percentage of gross national product, OECD figures had shown a reduction of 10 points in
New Zealand's performance between 1975 and 1976, compared with a reduction of 18 points
for Australia, 7 for Austria, 8 for Belgium, and 9 for Germany. There had been an
improvement of 7 points in the figure for the Netherlands, because that country had been
enjoying a considerable balance of payments surplus. Each country had wanted to make
more money available, but the realities had had to be faced.
The Government warmly appreciated and admired the valuable work done in the
Pacific countries by voluntary agencies, such as the Lions, Rotary, and church organisations.
He had seen some of the valuable work done by the YMCA in the development of village life
in Fiji.
Hon. F. M. COLMAN (Petone) endorsed the Minister's comments about the voluntary
aid provided by service organisations and individuals, and said it was tragic that the
Government was not complementing that effort at the same level as previously. It was
regrettable that the world economic crisis had prompted many countries to cut back their
development aid programmes. The effect of the world economic recession had been greater
on the developing Third World countries than it had been on Western countries. New
Zealand had supported the United Nations resolution and pledged 1 percent of its GNP for
overseas development aid, 0.7 percent being official aid. However, although the figure
during the last year of the Labour Government had been 0.58 percent, it had been reduced
to 0.44 percent the following year, and was estimated at 0.36 percent this year. The
Minister's explanation about the Labour Government's ability to raise the level to 0.7
percent had not been plausible, because New Zealand, like the rest of the world, had
experienced a recession in mid-1973 as a result of the oil crisis. However, despite that, it had
kept up the level of aid, and had been increasing it each year.
New Zealand's most valuable aid was given through Volunteer Service Abroad. During
the previous year, 99 volunteers had gone overseas-more than during the preceding year.
Such aid, on a person to person basis, generated tremendous good will towards New
Zealand, and everyone should encourage the scheme. It was sad that the first death of a
volunteer while abroad had recently occurred. Everyone would want to express regret to the
organisation, and certainly to the man's relatives; he had done a wonderful job on behalf of
New Zealand. The cost of the scheme was shared equally between New Zealand and the
recipient countries, but VSA had a substantial deficit. Would the Government be giving the
organisation the further assistance it had asked for?
Mr LATTER (Marlborough) said that as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee
he thanked the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the assistance they had given that
committee. Although there had been a reduction in the number of staff, those eight
members had been employed in New Zealand on administrative tasks. The ministry was not
the only department that had had to pull in its horns. Its staff gave tremendous help to
members of Parliament who travelled overseas. If one looked upon New Zealand as a
business, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would be the public relations firm that sounded out
the market for the country's products. Last year, $80.9 million had been voted for that public
relations team, and the $82 million voted for the current year was not enough. Charity
started at home. A country could afford to be generous with overseas aid if it had a sound
economy, but very little overseas aid could be given if its economy was not sound. He hoped
that more money would be available for overseas development aid in future. Perhaps a grand


## p. 2336 (#792) ###########################################

2336
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
piano could be provided for New Zealand House in London when the economic climate was
better.
The items for supporting activities-$40,000—and overseas visitors-$15,000, with
some money being provided by the producer boards were an important part of the vote.
The ministry was engaged in a number of conferences and activities to bring to New Zealand
people who could help overseas trade. The emergency and distress fund seemed to be an
excellent provision of funds within the vote.
The main effort leading up to the coastal economic management zone had been by the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the officials who had gone to the four conferences were to
be congratulated.
Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon) said that the Minister had agreed with the member for
Henderson that aid had been decreased by the National Government, and had been held at
the new level. Retaining the status quo with inflation running at 15 percent meant, in effect,
that there had actually been a drop in the aid vote. In retaining the aid allocation at last
year's level of $51 million, which had been 10 percent less in cash terms than the last
allocation of the Labour Government, the Government had moved further away from the
United Nations recommended percentage for the second year in succession. By not allowing
for inflation, the Government had voted less in real terms than in previous years. Despite a
total Budget increase of 19 percent, the aid vote had not been increased enough to allow for
inflation.
The report of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that 1976 had been the first full year
of operation of the Advisory Committee on External Aid and Development, which had been
set up to examine, debate, and publicise New Zealand's official and private assistance to
developing countries, but the greatest underspending in last year's aid budget had been in
publicity. Of the $85,000 voted, only $32,000 had been spent.
Sixty percent of the bilateral aid being made available was to go to the South Pacific. In
the Budget the Government had actually boasted about concentrating its efforts on the
Pacific, no doubt recognising its responsibility in that area. However, the aid programmes
failed to meet its needs. The Island economies were small and had a limited capacity to
absorb and use direct aid. Merely handing over money would not solve the problems. The
Pacific Islands Industrial Development Scheme, which it had been claimed would broaden
the economic base of Island communities and create new employment opportunities, had not
proved very successful. The incentives provided were not equal to those provided to
encourage regional development in New Zealand. Manufacturers in the Islands faced
enormous problems. The Government had not done its homework in ensuring that Island
manufacturers and worker groups had adequate access to New Zealand markets for their
goods; nor had any attempt been made to assist the Islands in developing markets outside
New Zealand.
Mr LAMBERT (Western Hutt) said that despite economic problems New Zealand had
maintained a better aid programme than had many other countries. The programme was
concentrated on the Pacific area, but did not involve merely handing money over to the
Island communities. In most projects New Zealanders worked with local people. For
example, the Tongan aid programme involved the extension of a livestock aid scheme, the
provision of pumps, fencing, and transport, breeding stock and cattle shipment, and advice
on farming. There was also a poultry programme, a feasibility study on dairy development,
upgrading of agriculture, a machinery pool, and refrigeration, as well as a soil survey. None
of those projects involved handing over money. The people were being taught to help
themselves.
Through the Tourist Hotel Corporation, New Zealand was working in partnership with
the Cook Islands Government on the Rarotongan Hotel. Not only would that bring wealth to
Rarotonga but it would also boost New Zealand's tourist trade. New Zealand was working
with the Pacific Island countries in the establishment of the Pacific Forum Line. Provision of
$12,000 was being made for a mandatory shareholding of 10 000 shares. The Government
had also undertaken to charter a vessel to the line. A programme of assistance costing more
than $250,000 was operating in Tanzania. The Government was still willing to help black
African countries even though they had been so critical of New Zealand in recent months.
Mr BLANCHFIELD (West Coast) said it was a scathing indictment of the Government
that it was taking in only 410 refugees from Vietnam-people who were in floating coffins-
while at the same time it was considering buying a piano for New Zealand House in London.
It was neither Christian nor moral to consider both in the same breath. Two principles were


## p. 2337 (#793) ###########################################

18 August
2337
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
involved in foreign aid, the first being the duty of a country to look after its fellow men, and
the second, perhaps a more materialistic one, to provide an insurance against a future
uprising in the part of the world with which New Zealand was concerned. New Zealand
should attempt to create a good image, and should do more to help those refugees who were
drifting around with empty bellies in floating coffins. National park boards were very
perturbed at the damage caused by opossums; perhaps young Vietnamese should be taught
to trap the animals-then they would have meat to eat and fur to wear. In a year or two New
Zealand would not be able to sell all its cheese and milk powder, and people who travelled
overseas should be looking for hungry people to take the surplus. New Zealand should do
more to help Western Samoa. When the Germans occupied that country they had built roads
and schools, and it was New Zealand's duty-
Hon. T. F. Gill: And they used Chinese labour.
Mr BLANCHFIELD: said some other labour should be used to build more roads,
schools, churches, and hospitals. The South Pacific region was deserving of aid, but New
Zealand should consider whether it was giving the right kind of aid. Forestry had been
mentioned, but it was doubtful if New Zealand was achieving the best results it could while
the beech trees on the West Coast were being left to rot.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said it had been suggested that a
piano be purchased for New Zealand House in London. While no provision had been made
in the vote, he thought it might be a good idea. Many young New Zealand musicians were
studying in London, and good use could be made of a piano for recitals so that New
Zealanders could gain an appreciation of the work being done by students.
In reducing aid, New Zealand had been in the company of Australia, Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, Germany, and Japan. The impact of inflation had affected the economic
situation, but when that improved there would be no lack of enthusiasm for an increase in
the vote. Opposition members had spoken about the Government's unwillingness to help
voluntary agencies, but the Government had given a subsidy of $1 for $2 to all projects
approved by the committee of voluntary agencies. The sum made available for voluntary
agencies had risen from $50,000 to $100,000 over the last five years. The amount allocated
for Volunteer Service Abroad had been increased by 25 percent to $170,000. Because of the
organisation's dependence on the Government it was now seeking greater support from the
public. The work done by the volunteers had been a credit to them and to New Zealand, and
had improved New Zealand's relationships with the recipient countries.
It had been suggested that the Pacific Islands industrial development scheme was
unsatisfactory. One project had got off the ground and other projects were being considered.
It could not be guaranteed that every project would succeed, but New Zealand industries
had shown interest in the scheme. One project was for poultry rearing and processing, and
another proposal was for processing dairy products. One company had started manufactur-
ing electrical switchgear in the Pacific, and wanted to expand its activities and its staff.
Another company wanted to develop a maize industry and would produce, process, dry, and
store maize. There was a possibility of a vegetable-growing and processing industry, and of
an electric cable manufacturing industry. Another proposal was for the manufacture of
cigarettes. There was a list of applications for assistance, which not only had to be processed
by the New Zealand Government but also had to be approved by the Government of the
country in which it was proposed to establish the industry.
Mr MARSHALL (Wanganui) said that for two successive years New Zealand had fallen
behind in its contribution to world aid. Last year there had been a drop of 25 percent in real
terms, and this year, although the vote had not been reduced, there was a drop of 15 percent
in real terms. In the last year of the Labour Government, 0.58 percent of the gross national
product had been spent on overseas aid; the percentage had now been reduced to 0.36. Since
the Gleneagles meeting the British Government had increased its aid vote, and it would be
surprising if any country had decreased its aid to the same extent as had New Zealand. From
the point of view of the recipient, multilateral aid was far more useful than bilateral aid, and
was a good indication of a government's sincerity. Aid to Asia had been reduced by $2.4
million, and the $50 million for the ASEAN countries was not worth the paper it was written
on. The whole question of aid should be looked at, and the Minister should consider calling
another aid conference.
Much had been made of contributions to South Pacific countries. It had been
announced that Western Samoan goods would have unrestricted access to New Zealand.
Western Samoan copra and bananas had been unrestricted anyway; handcrafts had been


## p. 2338 (#794) ###########################################

2338
18 August
Appropriation Bill-Estimates
subject to licence, but licences had been easily obtained. Would people from Western Samoa
now have unrestricted access to New Zealand?
Traders had expressed concern about the Pacific Islands development scheme. Manu-
facturers had discovered through their experience with regional development that many
plans did not eventuate, and they were critical of the inadequate assistance to the Pacific
Islands scheme. There was much more risk attached to establishing an industry in the Pacific
than to establishing one in Otago or Southland. The Government should seriously consider
more substantial incentives to encourage New Zealand manufacturers to move into the
Pacific. It might also consider the possibility of working to a greater extent through non-
Government organisations.
Rt. Hon. B. E. TALBOYS (Minister of Foreign Affairs) said that the level of New
Zealand aid at 0.36 percent of gross national product was still above the OECD average for
developed countries. He disagreed with the suggestion that worldwide opinion was that
multilateral aid was the most effective, and was absolutely certain that the proportion of
New Zealand's aid vote that became effective was infinitely greater than the proportion of
funds spent through multilateral agencies, where a greater proportion would be spent on
administration than under New Zealand's bilateral scheme. The advantages had been
mentioned, but the simple fact was that some cash was handed over, and that was the finish
of it. It was then left to a multilateral agency to work with the recipient government. He had
not seen a great deal of multilateral agency work, but from the few examples he had seen he
was glad that New Zealand had not been associated with it. The work that had been done
and the involvement of New Zealanders in it was beneficial to the recipient nations and also
to the relationship between New Zealand and the recipient countries. Even better than the
bilateral Government aid was the work done by voluntary agencies such as the Lions,
Rotary, church organisations, VSA, and the YMCA, each one of which in its own way had
made a valuable contribution to the total New Zealand aid effort.
Mr T. J. YOUNG (Hutt) said that he was bitterly disappointed at the negative attitude
to aid shown by the Minister. It had not been long since New Zealand had been honoured
alongside Sweden in the United Nations as having the most progressive outlook on all
aspects of foreign affairs, including aid. Today Sweden was facing exactly the same sort of
economic problems as New Zealand was, with increased oil prices and difficulties with its
balance of payments.
Progress reported.
The House adjourned at 10.26 p.m.


## p. 2339 (#795) ###########################################

19 August
2339
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
FRIDAY, 19 AUGUST 1977
Mr Speaker took the chair at 9 a.m.
Prayers.
DEATH OF FORMER CLERK OF HOUSE
Mr SPEAKER: I regret to inform the House of the death of Mr Eric Alwyn Roussell, a
former Clerk of the House of Representatives. Mr Roussell was Clerk-Assistant from 1947
until 1971, and Clerk until his retirement in January last year. Mr Roussell died this
morning. I desire, on behalf of this House, to express our sense of the loss we have sustained
and our sympathy with the relatives of the late Mr Roussell. I now ask members to stand
with me and observe a period of silence as a mark of respect to the memory of the late Mr
Roussell.
Honourable members then stood as a mark of respect.
FINANCE (INFLATION-ADJUSTED BONDS) BILL
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I move, That the Finance (Inflation-
Adjusted Bonds) Bill be introduced. This is what we call the "Luxton" Bill, after the member
for Piako. The Bill authorises the issue of inflation-adjusted savings bonds, as promised in
the Budget and, of course, in the National Party's election policy. The bonds may be issued
to individuals of or over the age of 7 years, and are not transferable. In addition to interest,
which under the terms of issue of the bonds will be set at 2 percent per annum, there will be
paid to holders of the bonds at the time of their redemption a premium that may be
calculated on the basis of the inflation occurring between the issue of the bonds and their
redemption. The terms of issue of the bonds indicate how the premium will be calculated in
accordance with movements in the consumer price index. Additional details in the terms of
issue provide that the bonds must be held for a minimum period of 5 years, although
superannuitants, executors of deceased estates, and administrators of bankrupt estates may
claim earlier redemption.
Income tax will be payable on the interest received on the bonds, but the inflation
premium will be exempt from income tax. Statutory authority to exempt the premium from
income tax will be contained in the Income Tax Amendment Bill. Clause 2(2) of the Bill
provides that Part III of the New Zealand Loans Act 1953 will apply to the bonds, and the
Reserve Bank will act as registrar of the issue.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): Many of the limitations now
announced by the Minister were mentioned in the Budget, but these limitations do not
appear in the Bill. I take it that it will be perfectly in order for the Government to vary in
future issues the terms announced by the Minister, that what he has said will apply to any
issue intended to be made at present, and that there will be a minimum term of 5
years—although from a quick reading I see no reference to 5 years in the Bill. Is the inflation
proofing to be the actual amount of inflation calculated to have taken place on top of the
interest that will be payable, or is it the difference between the interest and the calculation of
the rate of inflation over the period? The interest that is normally payable on the bond is
subject to income tax; the bonus is not. Clause 2 makes no clear statement as to whether part
or all of the inflation is to be applied. There is, of course, a very significant difference. If the
interest is to be something like the current rate on Government stock for 5 years, or 7 years,
or any other term, and if on top of that there is to be a bonus payable on the present level of
inflation, which would give, say, another 5 percent, about only one-third of the total interest
would be exempt from income tax and about two-thirds would be liable to tax.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The form of the Bill is somewhat
similar to present legislation for other forms of Government securities and, of course, as the
member will realise, the terms of those vary very frequently. This is in exactly the same
form. It is permissive legislation; the detail can vary from time to time. If the member read
clause 2 closely, I think he would find the answer to his second question. Clause 2 states: “in
respect of money borrowed under that Act upon terms that, in addition to any interest


## p. 2340 (#796) ###########################################

2340
19 August
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
payable on them, there shall be payable to the holders thereof at the time the bonds are
redeemed a further amount that may be calculated on the basis of the inflation occurring
between the issue of the bonds and their redemption." The words "in addition" mean that
the interest on the issue of 2 percent is payable, but, in addition, that the rate of inflation
calculated according to the consumer price index will be paid; so that the amount payable for
inflation proofing, tax free, will be the whole of the rate of inflation, and no part of the
interest will be subtracted from it. Otherwise, the bonds would not be inflation proof. The
whole idea of the scheme is that the purchasing power of the bonds will be maintained, and,
in addition, a small rate of interest is paid, taxable as earnings; but the principle is that the
purchasing power of the bonds will be maintained.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I am happy to accept the
Minister's assurance, but I should have thought that, if it was intended that the amount
should be equal to the amount of inflation, the words "equal to that amount", rather than
the words "calculated on the basis of the inflation" would be used. "Calculated on the basis
of the inflation" does not mean that an amount equal to the inflation will be paid. The
calculations could be based on several factors, including a consideration of the interest paid.
However, the Minister has now assured us that that is not the position, and I am happy to
accept it. My other point is that when the honourable member for Piako, as he was at the
time-
Mr Birch: He still is, isn't he?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Well, I could refer to him by his present title, which he did not
have at that time. His proposal was simply a protection against inflation. I do not remember
the qualifications mentioned in the Budget about either the amount of money to be saved
and protected, or the time for which it had to be held.
Mr Luxton: It is $500.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: Yes. Well, the Bill does not provide for a $500 limit, does it? I
suggest that the impression has been given fairly widely by Government members that this
scheme would apply to ordinary savings, but of course it does not; it will apply only to fairly
substantial sums of money put aside for 5 years.
Mr Luxton: Nonsense!
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: One of the moneybags on the other side of the House says that it is
nonsense-it is not a substantial amount of money and it will not be held for a significant
time. For most people, savings are what they put in the Post Office, a trustee savings bank,
or on other short-term deposits. This Bill is very limited. It will help those who are able to
put aside significant sums of money for 5 years or more, but it will mean nothing to the
ordinary small investor.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I cannot let the Deputy Leader of the
Opposition get away with that, because it is incorrect and totally misleading. It will not be
necessary to buy bonds in multiples of $1,000. The scheme will provide a repository for small
savings-although, certainly, for 5 years, because one certainly could not provide a return of
the kind proposed if the money deposited was on call. It has never been intended that such a
rate of return would be paid on money on call. The 5-year period has been calculated as a
reasonable one for what we have termed, both during the election campaign and
subsequently, a nest egg of up to $5,000. The small investor will be able to invest relatively
small sums and have them inflation proofed. That is the intention, and is what will be able to
be done after the Bill is passed.
The Bill is totally in accordance with the explanations given before the last election, and
it is almost precisely in line with the private member's Bill introduced by the member for
Piako and unanimously voted against by members opposite when they were in Government.
I well remember that the member for Manukau gave us all the reasons such a scheme could
not be implemented. The scheme will be of great help, particularly to elderly people, in that
it will preserve the purchasing power of a small nest egg; but the member for Manukau,
when he was a Minister of the Crown, told us at great length in the House that it was not
possible--that it could not be done and should not be done. Well, it is now being done.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): The Minister of Finance has
still not told us exactly how the bonds are to be issued, and in what amounts. He was quick
enough to take up the Deputy Leader of the Opposition on the question of whether or not a
large amount is involved, but he has not specified, either in his introductory speech or
subsequently, the amount the bonds will bear. He has said that they will be a great invest-
ment for the small saver. No one would know better than the Minister of Finance, the Prime


## p. 2341 (#797) ###########################################

19 August
2341
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
Minister, that all small savings institutions have a tremendous turnover; I think the Post
Office Savings Bank has a total turnover of funds about every 6 months. In other words, the
small savers put their money in, leave it there for about 6 months, and take it out again. Very
few of those people could possibly contemplate locking up any money whatsoever for the 5
years envisaged in this legislation.
The Minister of Finance made one very interesting comment in his introductory
remarks, when he said that superannuitants would be able to claim early redemption of the
bonds. Does that mean that someone aged 58 or 59 can invest in the bonds under the
conditions outlined from time to time, and then, on reaching the age of 60 and becoming a
superannuitant—and under this Government they are all superannuitants under any condi-
tions, even if they have an income of $30,000 a year-draw it out again; or does it mean that
superannuitants can put their money in for 1 or 2 years and then, on the basis that they are
superannuitants, draw it out again?
The Minister of Finance was most unclear on that point. He merely waved his hands and
said that if people are superannuitants there will be a possibility of redemption. In what
conditions will that be possible? If it is a question of hardship because a person has become a
superannuitant, what about the question of hardship for a person who is not a superannuit-
ant but who, having invested in the bonds, finds that his or her circumstances change
materially a year or 18 months after the investment has been made? Will they be given the 2
percent interest and told that that is their lot-"You are under penalty for having gone into
the scheme in the first place and then not being able to fulfil the 5-year contract"? I suggest
that the Bill is a very effective window-dressing exercise, but it may not mean a thing—and it
will not mean anything to the genuine small saver. The Minister of Finance may grin and
chuckle away to himself as much as he likes, but he knows that to be a fact.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I will be astonished if the Leader of
the Opposition does not take the opportunity of having a few bobs' worth of these bonds
when they are available. As I said before, I will not let him get away with misleading people
on this matter, because it is very important. The minimum contribution is to be $100, and
even many of the people for whom the Leader of the Opposition professes concern are likely
to have $100 in savings that they can put aside for 5 years, and they will do so when the bonds
are issued. Of course, that will be the test. When the bonds are issued, we shall see how
many thousands of New Zealanders have at least $100 that they are prepared to put aside for
5 years, inflation proofed.
Above the initial investment of $100, the bonds will be available in multiples of $50.
That is not too big a hurdle, is it? The former Labour Government introduced housing
schemes to encourage people to make savings that had to be tied up for a property. The
Leader of the Opposition did not criticise then the fact that someone who had started a
housing account and was unable to carry it on would not receive his premium back, yet he
was asking about someone who had started one of these accounts and who wanted to take his
money out again. He would be in the same position exactly as someone who had started a
housing account.
Hon. T. F. Gill: What about the baby bonus?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Yes, that was the brain child of the same honourable
member who has said that this scheme will not work. There is not much point in wasting too
much time at this stage, but it was necessary to reassure those who might be misled in some
way by the spurious criticism made by the Leader of the Opposition. This is a very good
scheme, and I have not the slightest doubt that it will be very popular. I have even less doubt
that thousands of New Zealanders can put aside a minimum of $100 to obtain a rate of
interest that will not be approached by any other investment in this country-certainly while
the rate of inflation is anything like it is at present. It will be a tax-free rate equal to the rate
of inflation. The scheme was devised by the member for Piako when there was a high and
accelerating rate of inflation under the Labour Government.
Hon. Dr A. M. Finlay: What about the rate of inflation now?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It was 5.5 percent in 1972. Then we had the Labour
Government, and it was 10 percent in 1973; it was 12.6 percent the next year, and 15.7
percent the year after that. At about the time the rate of inflation was moving through 12
percent and heading upwards, the member for Piako introduced his Bill into the House. It is
now down to 14 percent, and I bet it will be lower before too long; but nevertheless the
Government felt it was appropriate to bring in this proposal, which was put forward in our
manifesto. I am sure it will be welcomed. As I said, I will be very surprised if the Leader of


## p. 2342 (#798) ###########################################

2342
19 August
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
the Opposition does not have a few bobs' worth when the bonds are available.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): In both his opening and closing
comments the Minister of Finance indicated pretty clearly whom he expects to benefit from
this proposal. He suggested that I would be keen to invest in it, and so he presumes that
those on a salary equivalent to that of a Cabinet Minister are the people who would benefit
from the scheme; that is perfectly true, because those on the maximum tax rate will clearly
benefit. A Minister of Finance who has just given us a 4.8 percent quarterly increase in the
rate of inflation ought not to talk about spurious comment. If the Minister of Finance had
been able to deliver, as he claimed he would be, on this matter of inflation he would not be
worried about inflation-proof bonds 18 months after he had taken office. The situation
would have been in hand; it would not have been getting worse, as it clearly is.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): That speech causes me to ask the
Leader of the Opposition whether, after damning this proposal, he and his colleagues will
vote against it. Let him put his vote where his mouth is. I should be delighted if members
opposite did today what they did when this proposal was introduced in a private member's
Bill, or will they change their line, as they have on so many matters? When the Labour Party
was in Government and the private member's Bill was introduced, members opposite voted
unanimously against it. I wonder if they will change their minds today and vote for it? That is
the first test. The second test will be when the bonds are available; we will then see whether
the small saver-
up.
Hon. A. J. Faulkner: I will check quickly.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: The member cannot even remember; he is going to look it
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I make it quite clear that we
will not vote against the introduction of the Bill, but we are very critical of the Government's
abject failure that has led to its introduction. This measure is a surrender to inflation, but it is
a surrender only on behalf of the well-to-do. The Government is not making it possible for
small savers to receive any benefit under the Bill, but we will make sure, as far as we are
able, that its terms are extended to the small saver. We do not object to the principle.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Oh, yes, you do.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: We objected to the private member's Bill because it was unrelated
to many other things. That was quite clearly expressed at the time. This Government is
putting up a phoney argument in an attempt to impress on people that it is protecting them
against inflation.
Hon. T. F. Gill: Will you vote against it?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I do not thank the Minister of Health for his advice. His advice is
never worth more than the price he charges for it: it is nothing, and it is worth nothing.
Rt. Hon. B. E. Talboys: Are you not happy?
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am quite happy, in the circumstances. This is the Government's
admission that there is likely to be another substantial increase in the cost of living figure.
The Prime Minister is the worst failure in dealing with inflation; that was shown in the
immediately preceding quarter, when the inflation rate was the worst the country has ever
known. He is also following policies that will ensure that any future increases will be of the
same disastrous order. The Bill provides compensation to a very limited section of the
community-those who can afford to put money aside for 5 years-but there is no
compensation for the ordinary small saver.
As the Leader of the Opposition pointed out, most deposits in the Post Office are
turned over within a year; about twice a year, the total volume of savings is turned over. Any
attempt to compensate those people by even a slight upward adjustment of the interest rate
would be better than spending the same amount of money on this scheme for a relatively
small group of savers. That is what will happen; it will go to those people. The Prime
Minister spoke about $100 bonds, but he also made it clear that they will be held for a 5-year
period. Why 5 years? Does inflation mean nothing in a shorter period? Many people are
saving for short-term objectives.
Hon. E. S. F. Holland: You want ten bob each way.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: With this Government you would need a lot more than ten bob
each way to come out square. It is clear that this is the same kind of class legislation we
always get from this Government. It deals with only a very limited section, and the well-to-
do section at that.
Mr SPEAKER: We have had 10 speakers already on the introduction of what is, in


## p. 2343 (#799) ###########################################

19 August
2343
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
effect a one-clause Bill. If members so desire we can spend the full 2 hours on it, but we are
having persistent second reading discussions, as we so often do on these occasions.
Mr LUXTON (Piako): I should like to deal with one or two points raised by Opposition
members. When I introduced my Bill in 1974, and again in 1975, we had a Government that
continued to allow the inflation rate to increase. It was moving up quickly in each quarter
during the Labour Government's term of office. It concerned me, as it did everyone in the
country, that we had this continuing pattern of increasing inflation. The policies being
followed would have meant a continuing increase, and during that Government's term there
was a 43 percent erosion in the purchasing power of money. The idea for my Bill resulted
from a remark made to me at an election meeting by a Methodist minister. He said that he
wished he could put some money aside each year for the purchase of a retirement home,
because a home was provided with his ministry.
The bonds require an initial deposit of $100, with subsequent deposits of $50; that is an
insurance against inflation. The scheme will cater for the small saver, and will help people
who have worked hard during their life and who want to put money away for their
retirement. They do not want to invest in property, but they want the security of an inflation-
proof nest egg that will hold its purchasing power over the years. The scheme will help the
small saver and is not a saving scheme for the wealthy, as the Leader of the Opposition
implied.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): The Labour Government did not vote against
the private member's Bill introduced in 1974 by the member for Piako. In fact, the Bill was
introduced and was given a second reading. The Bill before us is an admission that the
Government is unable to control inflation. If the principle of compensating for the impact of
inflation on savings is so good, why has it not been extended to all savings? The Govern-
ment's election policy stated that savings accounts limited as to amount would be established
and that deposits would receive an interest rate at least equal to the annual rate of inflation;
such accounts would preserve the purchasing power of the basic savings nest egg.
The man in the street understands a savings account to be a small savings account in the
Post Office, or private or trustee savings banks. I am sure he will see the Bill as another
example of the disparity between the Government's election promises and the implementa-
tion of those promises, and will want to know why all savings accounts are not to be given
compensation for the impact of inflation. If the principle of compensating for the impact of
inflation on savings is good, why is the Government not carrying out the policy it put to the
people?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I am very happy to answer the
member for Wigram, and to tell him that the Government is carrying out the policy it put to
the people. The honourable member said that the Labour Government did not vote against
the Bill introduced by the member for Piako; if that is so, why is it not law? The Labour
Government refused to advance it, and I have in front of me a copy of the speech made by
the member for Manukau, in which he put forward seven reasons the Bill would not work.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: It's not the same Bill.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Oh, it is not the same Bill. Let us look at the seven reasons
to see if they apply to this Bill. The first was that the scheme could divert savings from non-
indexed financial assets to indexed financial assets. The member for Manukau will no doubt
vote against the Bill today, because that principle has not changed.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: This Bill is nowhere near the other Bill.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: It is precisely the same.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: It's substantially different, and the Prime Minister knows it.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: All right, let us look at another reason: "I think there
would be a risk of making more difficult and complicated the implementation of anti-
inflationary policies which are being followed at present." The Labour Government did not
allow that Bill to become Law, yet inflation rose by 2.5 percent the following year. The
member for Manukau says it is a different Bill, but surely these criticisms apply equally to
the Bill before the House. Here is another reason that would apply to this Bill: "Secondly, it
could well have the psychological repercussion of increasing the expectation of inflation at a
time when it must be held." Well, it was not held; so the psychological repercussion
somehow got in in spite of the fact that the Labour Government would not let the Bill pass.
All these long words are a bit difficult, you know, but they all amount to one thing-that the
Labour Government would not accept the principle of the Bill.
Mr Hunt: Neither would you. You have a different Bill here today.


## p. 2344 (#800) ###########################################

2344
19 August
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: He says it is a different Bill; it has different words. A few
details are different, but it has the principle of an inflation-proof nest egg.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: The return is much lower.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Oh, the return is much lower? So it is acceptable now?
Hon. R. O. Douglas: No.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Now he says it is not acceptable, so he will probably vote
against it, on principle. I wonder if any of his colleagues will follow him into the lobby when
he votes against the introduction of this Bill. He says the return is much lower. Well, the
return at present would be 14 percent tax-free plus 2 percent taxable. The rate of inflation
for the current year is 14 percent, so the return would be 14 percent tax-free plus 2 percent
taxable and he said the return is lower than that provided in the Luxton Bill, but he still
says it is not acceptable. Well, 14 percent tax-free is a pretty high rate of return. It is inflation
proofing. Members opposite are totally inconsistent, and I think, as you rightly said, Mr
Speaker, we are getting into a kind of second reading debate. I shall research the views of the
member for Manukau for the real second reading debate.
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS (Manukau): I want to ask the Minister of Finance just one
question: Why was it decided not to follow the suggestions made by the member for Piako in
his 1974-75 Bill? In that Bill, inflation proofing was on an annual basis. In other words, the
bonus for inflation for each year would have been added to the initial capital investment, so
that the bonus for inflation in the following year would be not only on the original capital
invested but also on the inflation of the first year. That would make a substantial difference
to the amount.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Oh, would it?
Hon. R. O. DOUGLAS: Yes, very substantial. In other words, if a person invested
$1,000 and the rate of inflation continued to run for 5 years at 20 percent, as it has in the last
quarter, under the Bill introduced by the member for Piako the investor would have been
between $300 and $400 better off than he will be under the Bill before the House. Why has
the Minister of Finance changed the terms of the Bill introduced by the member for Piako in
1974 and 1975? He seems also to have altered the policy put before the electors. I must admit
it is not very clear, but it does mention an amount at least equal to the annual rate of
inflation; savings accounts will be limited as to amount, but they will receive an interest rate
at least equal to the annual rate of inflation. Most people would interpret that as meaning
that a bonus for the inflation rate would be calculated each year and added to the original
capital investment, and, if the further money was left in, the bonus for inflation for the next
year would be added to the new capital value. Can the Minister of Finance outline the
reasons for the change?
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I can do that very readily. The
member for Manukau is certainly the champion of the House at digging pits into which he
himself falls. With this form of investment, the rate of the consumer price index-an index
number at the time of the investment-will be taken, and the index number at the time of
realisation will be taken, and the difference will be added to the original capital sum, thus
preserving the purchasing power of the original capital sum.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: That isn't what you said in 1975. It was to be tax-deductible.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: Is the member suggesting that in 1975 we promised a
capital increment? Is he suggesting that we promised a tax-free capital increment as well as
inflation proofing? Surely he is not contending that.
Hon. R. O. Douglas: That's what was included in the 1974-75 Bill.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: We are going to inflation proof the capital sum, as the
"Luxton" Bill was going to do and as our election policy said we would do. We have never
set out to provide a capital increment. Apparently, the member for Manukau is now saying
that we should have a capital increment which, on his calculation, would be $300 or $400 on a
$5,000 investment, plus inflation proofing. I do not think he will fool anyone with that kind
of logic. The purchasing power of the capital sum invested will be the same when the money
is drawn out as it was when it was lodged. The member for Manukau is indulging in his
normal habit of playing with figures, but he does not deceive anyone. Surely anyone can
understand what I mean when I say that if you put $1,000 in, it will buy the same amount
when you take it out 5 years later as it would have bought when you put it in. Surely that is
simple enough for the member for Manukau. In addition, you will get 2 percent per annum
interest, on which tax will be payable. That is simple enough, is it not?
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I wonder how the Minister of Finance can


## p. 2345 (#801) ###########################################

19 August
2345
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
reconcile this move with the undertaking he gave on the eve of the introduction of the
Budget to do something to alleviate the crisis in the equity share market. He knows, and
everybody else knows, that there is a crisis now; that the amount of money available for
investment in shares is diminishing. It is being syphoned off into the debenture market,
which is advertising interest rates of 13 percent and 13.5 percent before tax. I know of no
company that can offer what the Minister of Finance is promising here-14 percent tax-free
plus 2 percent taxable.
If that source of investment is available, does he really believe there will be any flow of
money into manufacturing industries, or will there be a renewal of the deprivation of funds
they have suffered for so long? I know there are limitations on the amount that can be
subscribed to these bonds, but if they prove to be as attractive as the Minister of Finance says
they will be, and if that attraction is felt by the people who will benefit most—namely, those
on the maximum tax rates—then a field of investment in the industrial enterprises of this
country will be turned off forthwith, I suggest.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): The honourable member is the first
Opposition speaker to raise what is really a very proper question-and he is quite right. This
was very much in my mind when we were bringing this measure together. I have made it
clear that it may be necessary to vary the terms of the offer in the future-by that, I do not
mean vary the inflation proofing, but vary the conditions on which it is available. We do not
know how much this proposal will bring in. It is my view that it will be very popular indeed,
but I suspect that most accounts will be for relatively small sums, given the minimum of $100.
I can envisage that thousands of people will put aside $100 in this kind of investment. It is
true that it is a good investment for anyone. That is why there is a 5-year period, because
some people will hesitate to tie up $1,000 a year for 5 years.
We cannot estimate how many people will be involved. A calculation cannot be made in
advance of what the direct investor will want to do, because he loses flexibility by his
investment. Most private mortgages are for amounts greater than $5,000 and for periods
shorter than 5 years. It is not easy to tie up any substantial amount of private money for 5
years. The Government will have to wait to see whether an individual with a substantial
amount to invest is attracted to a bond that lacks flexibility. Flexibility had to be taken out of
the bond by making its term 5 years. Because the Government does not know what will
happen, it may have to alter the terms if excessive sums are invested in these securities.
What the member for Henderson said about equity shares is correct. It is essential that
equity investment is made attractive again, and there are various ways of doing that,
although none are easy. Some of the ways of attracting investment are not compatible with a
vigorous attack on inflation. The Government is in a dilemma, and the factors have to be
considered step by step. When I made my speech 24 hours before I delivered the Budget,
some people thought that the Government would rectify the position the following day.
Perhaps my speech was slightly misleading, but it was not possible to rectify the position
then, and it is not possible to do so at present. If in the long term the rate of inflation
gradually moves down-and I believe it will-direct action will be taken to restore the equity
market, not so much the market, but the provision of capital for industry by means of equity
shares. The honourable member has raised an interesting point, and I confess that the
Government will have to watch this matter quite closely.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I shall summarise the
Opposition's objections to the Bill. The Opposition will not vote against the Bill's introduc-
tion.
Mr N. P. H. Jones: Sham fight.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I assure the member who is interjecting that there is no sham fight,
because the Bill sets up a problem for the future and the Government has shown no signs
that it will be able to cope with it. The member for Henderson introduced the point that the
Bill could produce a distortion in another area of financial activity, as its provisions will
make it more difficult to secure equity capital. Immediately before the Budget, the Prime
Minister spoke of his concern about the equity share market. Members opposite are
misleading the public, whether or not they realise it. I have checked the speech made by the
member for Piako in 1975; he explained then that there would be an annual adjustment. The
Bill has been checked, and clauses 12 and 13 prescribed the establishment of a committee,
and stated that within 28 days of the beginning of each financial year the committee would
meet, examine the inflation figures for the previous year, and report to two decimal places
on the extent of inflation. If the public was not to gain the impression that there would be an


## p. 2346 (#802) ###########################################

2346
19 August
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds) Bill
annual increment, I do not know what the words meant.
The Bill gives to a limited section of the people-those who put aside money for 5
years the opportunity of inflation proofing. The Opposition's objections are that the Bill
could distort the economic structure and that it will help only a very limited group. The
Opposition will not resist the introduction of the Bill, but will have more to say during the
second reading.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Minister of Finance): I am glad to hear that the Opposition
has changed its mind on this matter.
Hon. R. J. Tizard: It has not changed its mind and the Minister knows that.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON: The Labour Government did not resist it, but did not
accept it, and after it had argued against it with great vigour the 1975 Bill did not become
Law. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition and the member for Manukau should put their
heads together before the second reading of the Bill and work out precisely what the effect
would be of adding the annual rate of inflation annually to a 5-year bond; they should then
tell the Government whether they want to give a capital increment as well as an interest
return. The member for Manukau simply slipped a cog, as he sometimes does. The
Government has introduced an inflation-proofing arrangement, and the member for Manu-
kau is arguing that it should have a capital increment as well. If the Deputy Leader of the
Oppositon and the member for Manukau were to put their heads together with the research
unit, they would work out what the Bill means before the second reading.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
INCOME TAX AMENDMENT BILL
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): I move, That the Income
Tax Amendment Bill be introduced. The purpose of the Bill is to give legislative effect to the
Budget tax proposal for family assistance. The first proposal is to extend the existing young
family and wife rebates, and the second proposal is to introduce a new single-income family
rebate. At present, the young family rebate is allowable at the rate of $6 a week if the income
of the principal earner does not exceed more than $100 a week or $5,200 a year. The rebate
diminishes by 15c in each dollar when the claimant's income exceeds $100 a week, so as to
extinguish when the income reaches $140 a week or $7,280 a year. From 1 April 1977, the
rebate will be increased to $9 a week on incomes up to $150 a week or $7,800 a year. It will
then be reduced by 10c for each dollar of income in excess of that figure, and completely fade
out when the claimant's income reaches $240 a week or $12,480 a year.
The main change to the wife rebate is to the allowable income a wife can earn in any
year before the rebate is affected; that income will be increased from $375 to $520 a year.
The rebate will be reduced by 30c instead of the present 40c for each dollar of income
derived in excess of the allowable amount, and will extinguish when the wife's income
reaches $1,040 a year instead of the present $763 a year. To permit this extended fade-out,
the wife rebate has been increased by $1 to $156—that is a technical point. Consequentially,
the housekeeper rebate has been increased to $156 a year. These increased rebates, which
will apply from 1 April 1977, will be incorporated in the new PAYE tables that will come
into effect from 1 October this year.
The new single-income family rebate of $208 a year will also be allowable to the
principal income earner, but the qualifying criteria differ in three aspects from those
applying to the young family rebate. First, it is allowable if there is a child in the family under
the age of 10 instead of the age of 5 at any time during the income year. Secondly, there is no
limit on the allowable income of the principal earner, but the rebate will be reduced after the
income of the spouse exceeds $1,040 a year. The rate of reduction in this case will be 30c for
each dollar of income the spouse derives in excess of $1,040, so that the rebate will
extinguish where that income reaches $1,734. Thirdly, the rebate will be allowed in the
annual assessment; it will not be incorporated in the PAYE tables. For practical purposes, it
was decided not to incorporate this rebate in the PAYE tables because of the complexities
that the increased number of tax codes would cause for taxpayers and employers.
The remaining subject of the Bill is the requirement to furnish annual returns of income.
It provides that those persons whose only assessable income is from national superannuation
will not be required to furnish annual returns.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): The Opposition realises that
this is the maximum the Government is prepared to do for sections of the public, on that


## p. 2347 (#803) ###########################################

19 August
2347
Income Tax Amendment Bill
ground alone it will not oppose the introduction of the Bill, nor will it speak on the Bill at any
great length. Clause 3 indicates that the payment of the benefits provided in that clause will
not be introduced in this financial year. The Minister in charge of the Bill said that the tables
would become unnecessarily complex if the benefits were to be incorporated in the weekly,
fortnightly, or monthly payments. A complete new set of each table would be needed, and
that would present a problem for the Government Printer initially, and for the users of the
tables each time.
But surely an annual retrospective payment is a rather poor way of making the money
available. For most of the families that will get relief under this heading—and there will not
be a great number-the money is of vital concern now. The benefit, in effect, becomes a
kind of compulsory saving with a refund of the money at the end of the year. It is
administratively convenient, but for the people involved it is far from the best method. Even
if monthly or quarterly payments were resorted to, the amounts would be available
throughout the year. The weekly budget is the problem for the people who, we hope, will be
helped by this measure. They are not concerned to get a large sum of money, because they
do not have such an ambition. The families who will be helped would be much better helped
if they received a little more each week or each month to meet ordinary spending.
We welcome the extension of the low-income family rebate, but we still question the
qualifying age of the children, specifically for the single-income family. We also submit that
the rebate will not go to a large number of people. Apart from that, the changes are
generally in the direction of relieving the taxpayer to some extent. We on this side of the
House know why the limit had to be so tight: the Government's other commitments
prevented it from giving worth-while tax relief to deserving people. The assistance has been
given to people over 60, and the Government is not able to assist parents or single-income
and young families. We do not propose to resist the introduction of the Bill.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): I am delighted that the
Opposition does not intend to oppose the Bill, because we believe that in these two Budget
measures we have provided considerable assistance for families at a time of pressure on us
all. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was not quite correct when he said that these
measures would not help many people, because 200 000 families will be affected. Under the
1976 measure 90 000 families were eligible for the original young-family rebate. An
additional 70 000 will be eligible for the expanded young-family rebate, making a total of 160
000 families.
This new single-income family rebate, which we think an important measure, will lift the
figure to well over 200 000. It endeavours to remedy the growing disparity between those
with only one income, who are bringing up children, particularly children under the age of
10, and those who have two incomes now that more wives are working. We do not pretend to
be able to cope with a major sociological change of this kind by a tax measure, but we have
aimed to help, that is why we fixed the age at 10 years. Once their children have passed that
age, women who can work will find it easier to resume employment. The measure will affect
about 156 000 families, and we estimate that 98 000 which are eligible for the single-income
rebate will also receive the expanded young-family rebate. A large number of people are
affected by this Bill. We certainly wish to assist people by using the fiscal system, adapting it
to suit social conditions; that is what these measures are designed to do.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
LAND TAX (ANNUAL) BILL
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): I move, That the Land Tax
(Annual) Bill be introduced. This Bill is the normal annual measure for fixing the rates of
land tax payable for the year beginning 1 April 1977. The rates are the same as those that
applied last year.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): As the Minister said, there is
no change. There will certainly be no long discussion. The amount collected in land tax is so
small as to be almost trifling, but we go through this annual ritual of fixing the amount. The
Opposition does not propose to say any more at this stage.
Bill introduced and read a first time.


## p. 2348 (#804) ###########################################

2348
19 August
Income Tax (Annual) Bill
INCOME TAX (ANNUAL) BILL
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): I move, That the Income
Tax (Annual) Bill be introduced. The Income Tax (Annual) Bill is the normal annual
measure fixing the rates of income tax, excess retention tax, and bonus issue tax. The rates
for the year are assessed from 1 April 1977, and are the same as those fixed for last year.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): Although this Bill fixes rates at
the same level as before, there is a much stronger objection to it from the Opposition than
there was to the Land Tax (Annual) Bill, which had much the same effect. We believe very
strongly that the rates should have been changed. As I understand it, the Government was
quite unable to make any adjustments to this Bill and to the rates established, because it was
committed to very heavy expenditure in limited areas. As a result, the general taxpayer did
not get any adjustment, although inflation has increased his income insufficiently to
compensate him in most cases for the higher prices he has had to pay for everything. In
addition, through the operation of this Bill, he will in fact pay more as a proportion of his
income, as well as in cash terms, in income tax.
Although the Minister was silent on this point when moving the introduction of the Bill,
I do not think the public will be misled by that silence. I think the public is very appreciative
of the fact that the Government, despite its utterances at election time, has failed in this Bill
to live up to its promises. It is one thing to hold the rates of taxation. It is a vastly different
thing to hold the amount of taxation levied on an income paid in return for the same amount
of work, for the same time at work. I wonder whether the Minister would be prepared to
comment on the reasons it was considered there should be no adjustment in the annual
income tax to compensate for inflation, when the Government felt it was necessary earlier to
bring in a special Bill to compensate a small section for the effects of inflation on their
savings. I suggest to all members that it is far more important in the fight against inflation to
do something in this Bill, rather than elsewhere, because this Bill affects every income
earner in the country.
In the past, it has been customary to adjust the rebates, the exemptions, or the rates of
tax, but as far as I can see the Bill does none of those. In other words, the Bill expresses the
Government's determination to increase the proportion of the taxpayers' earnings it takes
for its coffers. There has been a lot of talk about the ability of a Government to finance its
expenditure without changing the rates of taxation. Of course, that has meaning only if the
rates of taxation and the levels of income relative to effort remain the same, but we know
that if incomes go up in purely monetary terms the combination of the same rates and the
same exemptions produces a higher return to the Inland Revenue Department. This has
been a regular feature of our society, unfortunately, but normally a Government makes
some adjustment to the rates, to the steps at which they apply, or to the rate rebates—but
none of them is there.
We are going to go into very much greater depth because, according to Budget figures,
these provisions are going to obtain $742 million more this year than the same provisions
obtained last year. There will probably be fewer people at work because of emigration and
unemployment. I do not think that more overtime hours will be worked, but the calculations
by the Treasury and the Inland Revenue Department presented in the Budget indicate that
there will be a return of $742 million more from these provisions. I think the Minister would
have to agree that that is almost the total return from income tax in the 1970-71 year. One
year's increase at this stage is equal to 1 year's total take only 7 years ago, yet we are being
asked to accept that this is just in the normal course of events, and that the Government is
not doing anything serious at all. The Bill is designed to take $742 million extra in 1 year,
without changing the rates of taxation. That is a comment on the level of inflation, as well as
on the Government's need to take that money for its other policies without giving any relief
to income-tax payers.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): That was a very interesting speech, and I
am bound to comment on it. It is not a case of a poacher turned gamekeeper, but of a
gamekeeper turned poacher, because the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was once the
Minister of Finance for a brief time; he left the public finances of this country in a shocking
mess, and that is one of the reasons for the situation he is criticising this morning. In the year
just ended, unless he had increased his tax rates or reduced his expenditure, there would
have been a deficit before borrowing of $1,400 million-and that figure was contained in a
Treasury report given to me when he was the Minister of Finance and therefore in charge of
the Treasury. That report passed through his hands. Well, we made some changes, but he
should be reminded that the tax tables proposed in the Bill are his own tax tables; they are


## p. 2349 (#805) ###########################################

19 August
2349
Income Tax (Annual) Bill
the Labour Government's tax tables, but they have been diminished by the low-income
concessions, the single-income concessions.
Let me also say very clearly that the figures from the Budget he and his colleagues are
bandying about of increased tax in the present year are the figures of the total increase in
income tax. Again, this morning, he gives the impression that the increase is coming from
the salary and wage earners. It is not. It is the total increase in income tax coming from the
salary and wage earners, the self-employed, including the farmers, and companies. It is the
total income tax, and one would have thought that at least a former Minister of Finance
would understand that, because he produced one Budget. The total receipts from income tax
provided in Table No. 2 of the Budget do not come simply from the salary and wage earners,
but from the salary and wage earners, the self-employed personal taxpayers, farmers and the
like, and companies. The member is correct in saying that it is to some extent a product of
inflation, but had the Government not cut various items of Government spending last year
--and again this year-so that last year we had an increase of only 2.7 percent in dollar terms
and a substantial decrease in real terms, this tax figure would have had to be higher still.
The same member has also made a great deal of use of a gross figure for national
superannuation; he mentioned it again this morning. That gross figure includes the whole of
the former universal superannuation, the whole of the former age benefit, an increase for
inflation, and a further sum recouped by way of taxation. He talks about $900 million or a
little more; in fact, the net figure is $185 million. I do not want to delay the House, but when
a member on the other side makes a speech that can be totally misleading, it is necessary to
correct some of his misleading statements.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): The Prime Minister is again
taking fanciful flights into history. If he wants to be accurate, as he so seldom is, he should
recall that in the 1975 Budget, which fixed these rates, there was also a clear statement that
when the 3-year period for which certain promises had been made had expired, there would
be adjustments.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: Election bribe subsidies.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: The Prime Minister cannot even be accurate when he interjects.
He knows that undertakings by the Labour Government about the levels of subsidies and
certain Government charges were kept. Members opposite seem to have difficulty in
recognising that promises are kept, because they are so used to having their own party walk
away from them. The figure mentioned by the Prime Minister as being the deficit before
borrowing is a figment of his imagination.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: The figure is from a Treasury report.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: It showed what could have happened if no changes were made.
However, there was a clear undertaking in the 1975 Budget that the changes would be made.
[Interruption.] Now members opposite change tack. Having been knocked off the perch on
the $1,400 million, they now have to jump up and down about something else. The facts are
that the Treasury report indicated only what could happen if there were no changes.
However, the document published by the Government in May 1975 indicated that there
would be changes. Therefore, it is entirely misleading for the Prime Minister to prattle on in
the way he has for nearly 2 years. It is just something to frighten the old women of the
National Party with.
I want to come back to the Bill, as I should, because the Prime Minister hardly touched
on it. The Bill enables the Government to take advantage of inflation for its own purposes-
immediately after we have had a measure that offered one small section of savers in the
community protection from inflation. I ask the Government and the Ministers responsible
for the Bill how much longer they will go on talking about their concern to fight inflation,
when they bring in a Bill with provisions that do nothing to give relief to the income
producer. The tables I introduced in 1975 reduced the rates for all incomes well beyond $150
a week-that is $8,000 a year. There was an upward adjustment on incomes beyond $12,000
a year because, in the main, those people were getting the monetary benefits of inflation.
However, this Bill takes a bigger proportion of the lower incomes, because the effect of
price rises and wage increases gives people on lower incomes more cash, and they pay a
higher rate of tax on their income. There is no way in which the Minister can get round that.
I invite him to comment on the need as he sees it to combat inflation by inducing people to
work more. This Bill does not do that. A lot of people will say, "I will pay too much tax if I
work overtime." If the Minister in charge of the Bill wants to make a real contribution to the
fight against inflation he should reconsider the level of tax, the graduated steps to which


## p. 2350 (#806) ###########################################

2350
19 August
Income Tax (Annual) Bill
those rates apply, and the total amount that is being collected at present.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON (Associate Minister of Finance): I can assure the Deputy
Leader of the Opposition that this measure is a very balanced, reasonable, and fair approach
to the country's fiscal problems. I simply remind the House that the member has gone on so
long about Labour's failure that he disowns the $1,400 million deficit projected for 1976-
77-and of course it was a projected deficit. But what about the one in the year for which he
was responsible? It was projected at $1,200 million when the National Government took
office in November, and there were still 4 months to go. What had the previous Minister of
Finance been doing in the previous 3 or 4 months when he was drafting the Budget?
The country was left facing a deficit of $1,200 million in 1975-76. The National
Government had to move with drastic urgency to reduce that deficit, which is one of the
things any responsible Labour Minister of Finance should have done. He would have faced
up to the commitments made and said to the people, "Look, there is no sense in thinking we
can live off tomorrow. We should be paying for what we need." The previous Minister of
Finance should have faced up to that in 1975, and I believe that in his heart of hearts he
knows that. He knows he is talking fantasy when he talks about the levels of taxation today.
The Labour Government was the tax grabber. In its 3 years in office tax increased an average
of 25 percent each year.
I wonder if the member would care to tell the House a little bit more about what he did
to the tax rates of people earning less than $2,000, as well as for those people earning more
than $20,000. I remind the House that although the member said that the tax rates fall more
heavily at the moment, in terms of the average ordinary-time weekly wage the average chap
paid 15 percent in 1972. In October 1975, under Labour, he was paying 18 percent. In 1976
the National Government had reduced that to 16 percent, and it is being further reduced. I
remind the House of the enormous relief we have granted to more than 200 000 families by
extending the young-family rebate and the single-income rebate. These are important
factors.
It is accepted that in maintaining Government expenditure in a time of high inflation,
tax rates are higher than one would wish. The National Government is a low-tax Govern-
ment, and will aim to reduce those rates. However, it still has to maintain the system in a way
in which the Labour Government refused to acknowledge-the need to ask people to pay for
Government services. The Auditor-General's report states that this year the proportion of
Government expenditure paid for out of taxation is 77 percent-the same as it was in 1973.
In my view, that proves that the Government has a reasoned and reasonable approach to
taxation.
Mr Hunt: That is no comfort to the one-income family. What does it all mean? It's
gobbledygook.
Hon. H. C. TEMPLETON: The member for New Lynn will find it extremely difficult to
combat the figures. The Deputy Leader of the Opposition was very critical of the average
increase in taxation. Everyone knows that taxation increases in a time of inflation, but let us
look at what it was previously. In 1970 total taxation revenue was $780 million, give or take a
dollar or two, and in 1975, when the Labour Government went out of office- 5 years is a
good planning period to take-taxation income was more than $2,100 million. In the Labour
Government's last year taxation increased by more than $400 million. We are not talking
about a new phenomenon; that is accepted.
The Minister of Finance and the National Government understand the situation better
than the Opposition, and will proceed with a policy of asking people to pay reasonable
taxation. It is still a privilege to pay tax to maintain the system of Government and society we
enjoy in this country-one of the best in the world. The Government has moved to slash its
expenditure and so keep the rates of taxation as low as possible. Would members opposite
not want the Government to maintain the pay of civil servants during a period of inflation?
Of course not. Would they not want it to maintain the country's elderly? That is what
national superannuation is about. The increase in cost is relatively limited if one looks at
what the increases in universal and age benefits would have been. I thought the Minister of
Finance would have mentioned what the additional cost of the Labour superannuation
scheme would have been. The two would virtually have balanced out at present. In terms of
reviewing taxation, we have endeavoured to meet real needs, and to limit the pressure on
income earners, for whom the Deputy Leader of the Opposition was so worried. We have
also endeavoured to be fair to the future by asking people to pay reasonably for present
expenditure.


## p. 2351 (#807) ###########################################

19 August
2351
Customs Orders Confirmation Bill
Bill introduced and read a first time.
CUSTOMS ORDERS CONFIRMATION BILL
Hon. P. I. WILKINSON (Minister of Customs): I move, That the Customs Orders
Confirmation Bill be introduced. This is a Bill to confirm in terms of section 131 of the
Customs Act 1966 all Orders in Council made under section 24 of the Act on or after 1 July
of the previous session, but before 1 July during the present session, and laid before
Parliament in accordance with the Regulations Act 1936. Section 131 of the Customs Act
provides that unless those orders are expressly validated by an Act of Parliament passed
during the session they will expire at the close of the session.
Mr MacDONELL (Dunedin Central): This is purely a machinery Bill, which, as the
Minister said, confirms a number of Orders in Council relating to customs tariffs. The
Opposition will not oppose it.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
NOXIOUS ANIMALS BILL
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests): I move, That the Noxious Animals Bill be
introduced. This Bill of 42 clauses consolidates and amends the Noxious Animals Act 1956.
There are 19 new clauses, and all of the 23 clauses carried forward from the present Act have
been amended to some degree. The major changes are to be found in clauses 9 and 13 of the
new Parts II and III. These changes cover ownership of noxious animals, powers of forest
officers, noxious animal recovery using aircraft on Crown-owned land, and recreational
hunting.
There are five parts to the Bill. Its purpose is to make better provision for the control of
introduced wild animals, and to regulate helicopter hunting on all Crown-owned land,
including national parks. Complementary legislation to amend the Air Services Licensing
Act 1951 to require helicopter operators to obtain a new type of licence—a noxious animal
recovery licence-is in draft form. A new system of permit control over entry to Crown-
owned land for helicopter hunting is to be administered by the Forest Service. Some changes
are also proposed to allow wapiti, red deer, wapiti-red deer hybrids, and fallow deer to be
held outside their feral range for deer farming purposes.
What is commonly known as the safari tourist industry was looked at to see if any
regulation of such activities was necessary at this time, but no such need was established.
However, the Bill provides for this by regulation should it become necessary. It is thought
timely to recognise, provide for, and supervise, recreational hunting, so as to achieve
concerted action and more effective noxious animal controls. Welcome clauses of the Bill
will be those which strengthen the trespass legislation and, to some extent, remove the
incentive for a person to trespass and unlawfully take noxious animals. Those provisions are
linked throughout the Bill, and have the support of Federated Farmers.
One definition in clause 2 which has been changed from that in the existing Act is that of
"noxious animal". The sixth schedule to the Wildlife Act 1953 lists the noxious animals.
Wild animals can be added to the schedule only by the Governor-General by Order in
Council on the recommendation of the Minister of Internal Affairs. The new definition in
the Bill lists the existing species of noxious animals. It specifically excludes such animals
when they are held under a permit for farming, research, or in zoological gardens. It allows
for the Governor-General to declare any land mammal a noxious animal by Order in Council
on the recommendation of the Minister of Forests. The interpretation of "noxious animal
recovery service" includes aerial hunting for deer for the purpose of selling the carcasses,
and the live capture of noxious animals using aircraft. It also includes the servicing of both
the above types of operation, plus opossum poisoning or trapping using aircraft.
Part I is titled "Noxious Animal Control" and commences with a new clause outlining
the purpose of the Act. The Act is for the control and, where necessary and practicable, the
eradication of noxious animals. This clause in effect spells out what has been the accepted
policy of the Government since 1965. In that year a select committee reported on noxious
animal control. That report was later accepted as the basis of policy by the Government of
the day, and by successive Governments. Other new clauses provide that the Director-
General of Forests can delegate certain of his powers, and also that forest officers have
authority to enter on to land and to search vehicles, sheds, and so on, where they have


## p. 2352 (#808) ###########################################

2352
19 August
Noxious Animals Bill
reasonable cause to suspect that some breach of the Act has occurred. There are also new
clauses stipulating that lessees of Crown-owned land have an obligation to ensure that
noxious animals on their properties are controlled. There are also clauses ensuring that
special consultation and appeal provisions are to be available for farmers where entry on to
their land is required to control goats. These are goats which are not branded and farmed, or
held behind effective fences, and which stray on to neighbouring critical erosion areas.
Clause 6 allows the Minister to delegate certain of his powers-for instance, to national
park boards and park rangers. Clause 8 clarifies the point that noxious animals can only be
hunted or killed by lawful means—that is, with the permission of the person in control of the
land. This provision supports clause 9, which clearly states that all noxious animals belong to
the Crown. Noxious animals may become the property of the person who captures or kills
them only when that person is lawfully on the land where he takes the animals. These are
quite important clarifications of existing law which will make trespass an unprofitable and
unlawful means of taking noxious animals. The prohibition on the liberation, and the
restriction on the keeping, of noxious animals remains, but the Bill allows, in exceptional
circumstances, for fallow deer, red deer, wapiti, and wapiti-red deer hybrids to be held
outside their feral range for deer farming purposes. Completely deer-free areas of the
country, however, are not to be so used; for instance, North Auckland, areas of Taranaki,
and the Chatham Islands.
Clauses 13 to 16 contain the main authoritative provisions of the Bill. Forest officers,
who hold powers under the present Act, are already provided with powers of entry on to
land to assess the impact of noxious animals. The Bill gives new powers, where they have
reasonable cause to suspect an offence, to seize animals unlawfully held or, as stated earlier,
to detect or prevent offences and to search vehicles, and so on. The powers are similar to
those of wildlife rangers under the Wildlife Act 1953, Agricultural Pest Destruction Board
personnel under their Act of 1967, and inspectors under the Animals Act 1967. To obtain
entry to a dwellinghouse, the usual procedure for obtaining a search warrant-authorisation
by a magistrate-is required. This is not a new power; it is included in section 8A of the
present Act. Likewise, the powers of entry on to land in clause 16 are virtually the same as
those in section 10 of the present Act. There is the important difference however that the Bill
now allows for an appeal to the Minister.
Two new provisions relate to the obligations of lessees of Crown-owned land to ensure
that noxious animals are controlled. The Minister of Forests has discretionary power to
charge a proportion of the cost where this duty has to be carried out by the Forest Service.
These provisions give Forest Service officers the power to inspect Crown-owned land held
under lease. Of the three remaining clauses in Part I of the Bill, the fencing clause is
amended to clarify the roles of the adjoining occupier and the Minister as regards the fencing
of a common boundary or other land. The special provision relating to goats is completely
new. This clause provides that where a farmer has goats on his property he may brand them
as prescribed in Part V of the Animals Act 1967. Providing he keeps them behind effective
fences they are legally farm animals and not noxious animals. If they stray, the usual
procedures for giving notice to the owner to remove his trespassing stock apply. However,
where the goats are unbranded and not effectively fenced they are classed as noxious
animals. Consultation and appeal provisions have been worked out with the assistance of
Federated Farmers. They are designed to protect the interests of farmers who wish to keep
goats as farm animals.
Part II of the Bill is extremely important. Briefly, it provides that there be one permit
issuing authority, the Forest Service, for all helicopter hunting on Crown-owned land. This
includes national park and maritime park land. It also provides for consultation with land
controlling authorities on conditions of entry on to land, with appeal and adjudication
powers provided. Land may be zoned for the purposes of this part of the Bill. Permits to
enter on to land to hunt may be issued, varied, or revoked by the Director-General of
Forests. The holders of such permits must accept certain obligations. Neighbouring farmers
who may wish their land to be hunted along with any nearby Crown-owned land may request
that the director-general arrange for such hunting under special conditions that the occupier
may lay down. Officers of the civil aviation division of the Ministry of Transport have
collaborated in the drafting of some of the provisions so that this Bill and the proposed Air
Services Licensing Bill will be complementary. It is intended that helicopter hunting on
Crown-owned land should be better regulated and more effectively used as a noxious animal
control measure.


## p. 2353 (#809) ###########################################

19 August
2353
Noxious Animals Bill
Part III of the Bill allows the Director-General of Forests to publicly notify areas to be
used for recreational hunting. That will be done under noxious animal control plans to be
drawn up and administered by the conservator of forests within whose conservancy any
recreational hunting area may lie. Provision is also made for a National Recreational
Hunting Advisory Committee, whose powers would be solely advisory to the Minister of
Forests. All recreational hunting areas will be monitored by Forest Service staff. Forest
Service staff will advise on the effectiveness of recreational hunting in keeping the number of
noxious animals under control and in protecting the land and vegetation. The director-
general will have power to reimpose more effective noxious animal control at any time
should that be necessary. No high erosion risk areas will form part of any recreational
hunting area. No national park or reserve for the protection of flora or fauna will be
considered for inclusion.
Part IV is a much reduced part of the present Act, which has been rarely used in the last
21 years. Quite simply, the power for the Minister to agree to noxious animal control
proposals of local authorities and to approve of them operating using their own funds is
retained. All the procedures for appointing inspectors and other non-essential matters are
removed. A local body may wish to control opossums within its borough on land not covered
by any county agricultural pest destruction board. In such a case the Minister of Forests
would ensure that the proposals were practical, and agree to the local authority having such
powers.
The general provisions of Part V of the Bill are largely machinery clauses, little changed
from those in the present Act. There is a new provision, clause 32, on the definition of
notices given under the Bill, and two other provisions, clauses 34 and 37, which mainly seek
to plug inadequacies in the present Act. Clause 34 provides that offenders may be liable for
the payment of expenses arising from the act which constituted the offence. The provision in
clause 37 is similar to one in the Wildlife Act. It provides that where a person is found in
circumstances where a reasonable presumption can be made that he has committed or
intends to commit an offence, the liability rests on that person to establish that he has not
offended or does not intend to offend. In practice, where a person is found on land where
noxious animals are present with, for instance, a loaded firearm and he has no permission to
be on the land, it can be assumed reasonably safely that unless he can produce evidence to
the contrary he does intend to hunt noxious animals. That clause complements clause 9,
which deals with the ownership of noxious animals. All remaining clauses are purely
standard provisions.
As stated in my opening remarks, the Bill is designed to make better provision for the
control of noxious animals and to regulate commercial helicopter hunting and recreational
hunting. The need for legislative changes has been evidenced by the number of official
inquiries into noxious animal administration over recent years-for example, the select
committee inquiry in 1965; a further report in 1968, which dealt with some aspects of noxious
animal administration; the National Government's re-examination and re-affirmation of its
noxious animal control policies in 1970; the former Labour Government's caucus committee
report on noxious animal control and related matters in 1974; and, during the past 18
months, the review of noxious animal administration carried out by the present Govern-
ment, which has led to the drafting of the Bill. In addition to inter-departmental consulta-
tion, there has been consultation on the clauses that materially concern them with Federated
Farmers of New Zealand, the Fiordland National Park Board, and the National Parks
Authority. At the appropriate time, I shall move that the Bill be referred to the Lands and
Agriculture Committee.
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): In his closing remarks the Minister said that the
Bill is to be referred to a select committee for consideration, and for that reason I shall limit
the comments I make this morning. As the Minister has indicated, the questions covered in
this measure go back over a long period and have been the subject of very intensive inquiries
by select committees, caucus committees, and groups outside the House. On a first
reading—and the Bill has been available to me for only a few minutes-the measure appears
to cover a wide range of differing opinions in an attempt to bring together the interests that
have raised such controversial issues over a long period. Certainly it provides for steps to be
taken to control Forest Service land utilisation and conservation, recreational hunting,
commercial game recovery, and all land in a similar category.
I should like the Minister to explain one point. It appears that the Government has
decided that the Forest Service should have the overall responsibility for policing the
26 Vol. 412


## p. 2354 (#810) ###########################################

2354
19 August
Noxious Animals Bill
provisions in the Bill. If my memory serves me right, the Hunn committee that considered
this matter back in about 1966 recommended that the Department of Internal Affairs should
be the controlling authority or consolidating department, although the Department of Lands
and Survey, the Forest Service, the civil aviation division, and the Ministry of Agriculture
and Fisheries should also be involved in administering the legislation. Widespread discussion
was held on the point, and a number of views expressed were publicised at the time. The
concensus appeared to be that the Department of Lands and Survey was the most
appropriate body to control overall the interests involved in recreational hunting and other
activities on Crown land and areas adjacent to it. However, it appears that in the intervening
period the Government has decided that the Forest Service should be the controlling
authority. The Minister may not be in a position to explain the change of heart immediately,
but when the Bill goes to the select committee I hope he will explain fully the reasons behind
the Government's thinking.
The Bill is a comprehensive measure. Clauses 4, 9, and 13, as the Minister outlined,
form a major part of it. Clause 26 makes provision for the declaration of recreational hunting
areas and the conditions relating to their use. I ask the Minister to explain his views on this
provision and to confirm that it is in line with the recommendation of the Lands and
Agriculture Committee on the widely publicised petition relating to thar hunting and the
preservation of thar for recreational purposes, and a rider from that committee that an area
be designated for this purpose. Since then we have been told that the Government has
decided not to accept the recommendation contained in that rider, but my interpretation of
clause 26 is that it makes provision to do the opposite-to set aside an area to be designated
for recreational hunting of noxious animals where this would not cause damage to land or
forests, and could be properly controlled in regard to the numbers that may be taken.
I do not propose to say any more at this stage. If the Minister feels this is not the
appropriate time to reply I certainly hope he will give consideration to the points I have
raised before the select committee meets.
Mr ISBEY (Grey Lynn): Like my colleague I welcome this long overdue Bill, which has
been in the pipeline for some time. Does this Bill closely follow the recommendation in the
report brought back to the House in August 1974 by the previous Labour Government?
From memory, I thought that report recommended that commercial game hunters be
licensed, and that there be separate regulations for recreational game hunting. The reason
for licensing commercial game hunters was the many infringements by helicopter pilots
indulging in mass game hunting, which very often led to wanton destruction of game life.
I have gone through the Bill hurriedly and cannot see any reference to the licensing of
commercial game hunters, but I did read a part dealing with the regulation of recreational
game hunters. How far would that regulation go? I should hate to see any incursion into the
rights of sportsmen, or any restriction of their hunting sport in New Zealand. I know there
has been quite a lot of feeling from recreational game hunters about this because, as the
Opposition spokesman on recreation and sport, I have received letters from them. All would
want to see the commercial hunters restricted in their activities with greater freedom being
given to recreational hunters to carry on their sport without too much regulation, so long as
protection is given generally to the environment.
I appreciate the Minister saying that the Bill will go to a select committee, and I am sure
that the spokesmen for the farmers, the environmentalists, and the scientists, among others
who have been eagerly awaiting the measure, will make their submissions. If the Minister
would just answer the question about the licensing of commercial hunters and about greater
facilities for recreational hunters, then generally we would welcome the Bill.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests): The Government examined several studies of
the Noxious Animals Act, including the report of the caucus committee of the previous
Government. Most of the recommendations of that committee are contained in this
legislation; the one that is not relates to the licensing of game hunters.
Mr Isbey: Commercial?
Hon. V. S. YOUNG: Yes. It is a difficult question because it is not easy to differentiate
between those who operate on foot on the land and those who operate in the air. There was
an urgent need for some form of order and control over helicopter operations, and so those
are being provided in Part II; and there will also be the new Air Services Licensing
Regulations to be introduced by my colleague the Minister of Transport. Both measures will
be complementary and will be aimed at bringing order where there is chaos.
The member for Timaru asked about the Hunn report dated, I think, about 1968. That


## p. 2355 (#811) ###########################################

19 August
2355
Noxious Animals Bill
report recommended that the Forest Service continue to exercise control over noxious
animals; and that is what is in this Bill. The member spoke about recreational hunting and
about the petition that came before the House about finding areas for controlling thar by
recreational hunting. The only possible areas were in country that was highly erodible, and it
was impossible to find suitable areas. In providing for noxious animal control by recreational
hunting we must avoid using those highly erodible areas, and so the provision the member
has asked for cannot be made. I know there will be a number of submissions to the select
committee, and further questions can be answered there.
Hon. R. L. BAILEY (Heretaunga): In the Tararua National Forest Park a short time
ago there was bother with helicopter operators who were extremely hard to identify, and so I
go along with the suggestion made by some of my colleagues that, because of that difficulty,
those air operators should be licensed. The Minister mentioned accompanying legislation to
be introduced by the Minister of Transport to deal with the licensing of air operators, but I
hope that some better form of identification can be arranged on the aircraft. Some people
have been known to abuse what is a grey area, and I know that some people in recreational
areas have been badly frightened by the air operators. Some form of licensing should be
possible, whether under civil aviation legislation or under this Act. I should prefer it to be
under this Act because it covers recreational hunting.
As I said, a lot of concern has been expressed in the Tararua National Forest Park area.
Are there sufficient trained people in national park areas to police the laws that Parliament
makes? I know that we have rangers and their assistants, but are there enough to ensure that
people are not abusing those areas? In an area in the Tararuas recently, to which people
were able to gain ready access, quite a lot of damage was done by vandals. If there had been
adequate national park staff or Forest Service staff much of the damage could have been
prevented. Does the Minister intend to increase staff numbers to protect forest parks?
Hon. Sir BASIL ARTHUR (Timaru): The Minister said that his department looked at
areas that could be set aside for the recreational hunting of thar, but they were all highly
erodible areas. Land on the eastern side of the main divide of the South Island was
considered unsuitable, but land in the Landsborough Valley, on the western side of the main
divide, was put forward as an alternative. No report has been given on this land, and all the
Minister has said is that all areas looked at were highly erodible and could not be set aside
for recreational hunting. I support the inclusion of clause 29. The rider to the petition was
accepted by the House, but it appears from press reports that it has been declined, and no
satisfactory explanation has been given.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests): I agree that identification of helicopters is
extremely difficult. The policing of this legislation and the Civil Aviation Act is not easy, and
it is extremely difficult to apprehend people who disregard the law. The penalties in the Bill
and those in the proposed air services licensing legislation will be quite severe, and the
director-general may withhold permits if a helicopter operator is known to be disregarding
the law. The question of equipping Forest Service officers and national park rangers with
greater powers is covered in the Bill. The decision made on an area for the hunting of thar
was conveyed to the annual conference of the New Zealand Deerstalkers Association, and
also to the petitioners. The areas mentioned by the member for Timaru were looked at, and
were found to be unsuitable.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
Hon. V. S. YOUNG (Minister of Forests): I move, That during the hearing of evidence
before the Lands and Agriculture Committee, the proceedings of the committee be open to
accredited representatives of the news media.
Motion agreed to.
NEW ZEALAND PLANNING BILL
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of National Development): I move, That the New Zealand
Planning Bill be introduced. The Bill gives a statutory basis to the New Zealand Planning
Council and to the Commission for the Future. The establishment of these two organisations
is in fulfilment of manifesto promises. The Planning Council represents the promised
revitalisation of the planning mechanism set up as the National Development Council by the
previous National Government. It was also promised in the manifesto that a Commission for
the Future would be established by Act of Parliament, and this is now being done.
The National Government pioneered consultative planning in New Zealand. The
26.


## p. 2356 (#812) ###########################################

2356
19 August
New Zealand Planning Bill
establishment of the National Development Council was a milestone in the country's
development. For the first time people came together from the public and private sectors,
and from the universities and the farms, to share their views on the desirable path of future
development. Soon after it took office in 1975 the present Government asked Sir Frank
Holmes to direct a task force on social and economic planning with the aim of recommending
how the planning machinery could be revitalised. I must pay tribute to the efficiency and
thoroughness with which Sir Frank and his group went about their task. The structure of the
Planning Council set out in the present Bill incorporates most of the recommendations of the
task force, and the Government has asked Sir Frank to be the first chairman of the new
organisation.
The New Zealand Planning Council will enjoy certain advantages over the previous
National Development Council. In the first place, it is to have a statutory basis which confers
on it a greater authority in its work of consultation. Secondly, it is to have its own
independent secretariat able to devote its energies to the work of planning. Thirdly, the
Government has agreed that Sir Frank Holmes, as its first chairman, will devote his full time
to the work of the council. The Minister of National Development is to be a member of the
council to ensure that its work is brought into consideration in the Government's decisions.
The Secretary to the Treasury is also a member, to ensure close co-operation between
departments and the council.
The principal function of the New Zealand Planning Council under the present Bill will
be "to advise the Government on planning for social, economic, and cultural development in
New Zealand". The Government intends that the council should play a role in co-ordinating
planning of all types and act as a focal point for a process of consultative planning for New
Zealand's medium-term development. This is spelt out in the Bill. The Bill gives the council
the power to prepare reports on any matter affecting the economic, social, and cultural
development of New Zealand, and to publish documents on planning topics which, in its
view, merit wide consideration and public debate. The Government is, therefore, setting up
the council as an independent organisation and has given it the right to express its views. The
appointed members are to serve as individuals and not as representatives of any interest
group.
The council will, I hope, provide a source of advice to the Government and increase
public understanding of issues relating to New Zealand's development. The Government
expects it to illuminate such issues, and the constraints on resources within which decisions
must be made. At the same time it is to be hoped that the council will stimulate Government
departments, local bodies, and private agencies to consider the long-term national interest as
well as their short-term aims. The council should increase the opportunities for constructive
consultations about how the goals of different groups can best be harmonised. There should
be no doubt, however, that when the advice of the Planning Council and of the Govern-
ment's other official advisers has been received, it is the responsibility of the Government to
make decisions.
I turn now to the Commission for the Future. This organisation is an innovation which
reflects the Government's desire to ensure that it and the public have an early warning of the
major issues looming up in the future as a result of long-term changes in the social,
technological, and economic environment in which New Zealand's development will take
place. The commission is to give special attention to the implications of new or prospective
developments in science and technology. It is generally accepted that such changes have had
a major effect in shaping our society, and will continue to do so in the future. The
commission will be concerned with identifying issues rather than resolving them, and the
time span that it is considering is much longer than that of the New Zealand Planning
Council. It is intended that the commission will initiate public discussion on the possibilities
for the long-term economic and social development of New Zealand. Special emphasis is to
be placed on ensuring that members of Parliament have opportunities to inform themselves
of the issues discussed in the commission's reports.
A significant feature of the commission is that it is to be a bipartisan body, including in
its membership a member of Parliament appointed on the nomination of the Leader of the
Opposition. The commission is already in operation, with a member of the Opposition
participating fully in its deliberations. A Minister of the Crown and the Director-General of
the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research are also to be members of the
commission, and provision is made for an independent chairman. The first chairman is
Professor James Duncan of Victoria University, and I appreciate the work he is putting in


## p. 2357 (#813) ###########################################

19 August
2357
New Zealand Planning Bill
during the initial stage of the commission's development.
The introduction of this Bill demonstrates the Government's commitment to three
important objectives. The first objective is to increase general awareness of key issues
relating to New Zealand's development; the second is to ensure that a sound basis for long-
term policy is arrived at by a process of wide consultation; and the third is to bring long-term
considerations to bear on policy matters.
Hon. MICHAEL CONNELLY (Wigram): As the Minister said, the Bill makes provision
for the Planning Council-but the Minister did not say what it could be expected to achieve.
It is worth pointing out—and the Minister referred to this—that we have already had
experience of planning under the National Government through the National Development
Council set up in 1968. That council was to produce the panacea for all New Zealand's ills,
whether economic or social; but it did not. The reason was the Government's failure to back
up the project with complementary policies to enable it to succeed, thus preventing the
National Development Council from functioning as it might have functioned. The result was
that the period from the mid-1960s to the time of the National Government's election defeat
was referred to as the period of greatest economic instability and slow growth since the end
of the second world war.
Certainly, planning can aid economic management and economic and social develop-
ment, but only if complementary policies are associated with it. The Minister has not given
the House any assurance that the Government intends to back the Bill with sound and
effective complementary policies to achieve the objectives said by the Minister to be
provided for in the Bill. Indeed, far from giving the House an assurance of effective and
sound economic policies, and some hope for the future, the Minister of National Develop-
ment was headlined just a few weeks ago as predicting a gloomy future for New Zealand:
"Gair predicts gloomy future".
If the Government sees no way of managing the country to give it a better future, what
does the Minister expect this planning Bill to do? A planning mechanism on its own, and
recommendations from a planning organisation, will be totally ineffective unless there are
back-up Government policies to enable the organisation to help the Government to do what
the Government cannot do itself. The whole objective of this operation is to take over from
the Government the functions that it clearly admits it is unable to carry out effectively. It
may be all right for that body to make recommendations to put the Government back on the
rails economically and socially, but, in the light of the Minister's gloomy prediction for the
future, it seems that the Government is not going to provide the back-up to make the
legislation succeed, or does not know what policies to introduce. What policies will the
Government introduce to back this up? Is there any assurance that if the body makes
recommendations to the Government the Government will carr, them out? Will it be
another body like the National Development Council which, although it made recommenda-
tions, existed in a period stated to be one of slowest growth and greatest instability since the
end of the second world war?
The Commission for the Future has a different role. It is to study long-term economic
and social trends, to make information available, and to promote discussion. Those are
worthy objectives, and the country will benefit if the Government takes notice of the advice
given it as a result of the commission's activities. But, again, the Minister has given no
assurance about that. What assurance is there that this Bill will be any more effective than
was the economic and social planning embarked on by the National Development Confer-
ence?
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of National Development): Replying briefly, I refer the
member to clause 5 of the Bill, which sets out very clearly the functions and powers of the
council. If he would read that clause, the first part of his question would be answered. As for
the second part of his question, I do not think it is possible for me, on behalf of the
Government, to say what will be done about the recommendations of the Planning Council
until they are received, but I can assure the member that the Government will give them very
earnest consideration and will continue to introduce sound and effective policies
complementary to wise planning.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
CONTRACEPTION, STERILISATION, AND ABORTION BILL
Hon. DAVID THOMSON (Minister of Justice): I move, That the Contraception,


## p. 2358 (#814) ###########################################

2358
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill be introduced. The Bill fulfils the Government's undertaking
to put before Parliament legislation that, if enacted, would implement those recommenda-
tions of the royal commission that can be implemented only by legislation. I take the first
opportunity of thanking Mr Roger Barker, parliamentary counsel, for the care he has taken
with its drafting.
The Bill should in one sense be regarded as Parliament's Bill rather than a normal
Government Bill, because Cabinet members and all Government members—and, I believe,
Opposition members as well-will be exercising their individual judgment on its merits. We
will be assisted in that exercise by reference to the carefully discussed arguments of the royal
commission and, to help honourable members and the interested public, the explanatory
notes to the Bill indicate the page and recommendation numbers of the report relevant to the
provisions in the Bill.
The Government is concerned to see that, whatever the House agrees as to the content
of the Bill, the end result should be clear and effective law. To that end I invite honourable
members who wish to offer amendments to any of its clauses to seek the assistance of the
Parliamentary Counsel Office in their drafting. Needless to say, the longer the notice that
can be given of such amendments the more likely it is that careful consideration can be given
to them. I have already had notice from my colleague the Minister of Education of his
intention to put forward amendments to the Education Act to give parents the right to be
consulted about and to withdraw their children from classes and courses which deal with sex
education. As the assurance of that right is given in the National Government's policy,
Government members are committed to it.
I need to refer now to the form of the Bill. If the Bill is read a second time I shall move
at the appropriate stage certain procedural motions designed to split the Bill into its
component parts for final enactment. I shall propose that Part I be enacted as a separate Act.
It deals with those matters that cannot be dealt with by amendments to existing Acts. Part II
comprises the various amendments to the Crimes Act 1961 recommended by the royal
commission. I shall propose that it be enacted as a separate Crimes Amendment Act. Part
III comprises a number of amendments to various Acts. I shall propose that the clauses be
enacted as separate amending Acts along the lines of the procedure followed for the Statutes
Amendment Bill.
Within Part I the various provisions are grouped under the headings “Contraception",
"Sterilisation", and "Abortion". It is not necessary for me to detail the clauses of the Bill.
As I have said, members will find reference in the explanatory note to the particular
recommendations of the royal commission to which each clause relates. I should, however,
comment on one matter. The royal commission recommended on page 293 of its report that
the decision about whether or not an abortion should be performed should be vested in
panels. As a second-best alternative the commission recommended that the decision be left
to two doctors. My Cabinet colleagues and I felt that—without in any way adverting to the
respectful merits of the proposals-we should provide for the commission's first choice, and
the Bill so provides.
To sum up, the Bill is a faithful attempt to set out in legislative form the recommenda-
tions of the royal commission. The ultimate fate of the Bill and each of its provisions rests, as
it must, with the honourable members of Parliament. I commend the Bill to the House.
Rt. Hon. R. D. MULDOON (Prime Minister): I thought I should speak very briefly at
this early stage of the debate and make one or two comments about the passage of this
measure. I shall say very little more than that. Government members will have a free vote on
the measure with the one exception referred to by the Minister of Justice. One aspect of the
Bill hinges on education policy. The Minister of Education proposes to introduce an
amendment that will be supported by Government members because it is Government
policy. The amendment gives parents the right to withdraw their children from classes when
sex education is taking place.
The royal commission set up by the Labour Government sat for 2 years. Its membership
was widely accepted at the time it was set up and was not criticised. That is one of the reasons
the Government does not propose to recommend that the Bill be referred to a parliamentary
select committee. If the Bill went to a select committee one would assume that the
committee would be made up of 10 members, and any further evidence heard would be
heard by only the 10 members. All members of Parliament have to make an individual
decision on each aspect of the Bill. If the Bill went to a committee 10 members would be fully
informed and the remaining members would be in a less favourable position.


## p. 2359 (#815) ###########################################

19 August
2359
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
a
It is my view-and that view is widely shared by Government members-that people
who wish to make representations on the Bill, and who would have made representations to
select committee-and who perhaps made representations to the royal
commission—should make their representations to each member of Parliament. It is more
difficult to do that, but each member will exercise his vote individually. If a point of view is
put forward, the only practical method of dealing with it is by making recommendations to
each member either by printed material or otherwise if time permits.
As Leader of the House it is not my intention to bring the Bill down for a second reading
until mid-October. It is now 19 August, and if the present progress of the House is
maintained the second reading will be held in the second week of October. I have looked at
the parliamentary timetable. I wish to be present when the Bill is considered, and I think it is
my duty to be present. Considering the Bill then will allow time for representations to be
made to members of Parliament. Some members may propose amendments to the Bill, and
the Minister of Justice has indicated that the services of the law draftsmen will be available so
that the amendments can be presented in proper and workable form. If departmental advice
is desired on the practical aspect of amendments, that will be made available through the
appropriate Minister.
I suggest to members who propose to make amendments that they should have them
drafted and publicised well in advance of the time they are to be considered in the
Committee stage. The Bill has very important practical applications. As Leader of the House
I do not want important practical amendments being put during the Committee stage and
considered in haste. If members want to introduce amendments they would help to obtain a
tidy result by having them drafted and circulated so that other members can give them full
consideration. It may not be possible to do that, because some amendments may arise
consequent upon the passage or failure of other amendments. I commend that practical
suggestion to the House. If any amendments are passed and require a Governor-General's
message—that is, they require to be taken by the Government and appropriate funds
provided-I give an assurance that that will be done. It is my intention that the Bill be dealt
with by Parliament in the best possible manner and that when it becomes law-assuming that
it will be passed-it will reflect the will of Parliament in a practical manner.
Rt. Hon. W. E. ROWLING (Leader of the Opposition): Opposition members will
exercise a free vote throughout this measure. The Prime Minister has indicated that an
amendment will be introduced to the Education Act, and will be a Government vote. My
colleagues and I will consult when the Government has indicated what it has in mind. It will
be realised that at this stage Opposition members have not had the advantage Government
members have had of studying the Bill, but that is customary. At least we have been told,
and I am glad of this, that this is one piece of legislation that will not be rushed through. As
the Minister of Justice said, whatever comes out of the Bill must be clear and effective law.
I certainly welcome, on behalf of members on this side of the House, the suggestion that
members contemplating amendments to the legislation should consult the law drafting
officers as early as possible. Parliament has got itself into strife more than once through very
well intentioned but badly drafted amendments to legislation by individual members.
There is no doubt that this issue has given New Zealand's pluralistic society as big a
bashing as any issue over the years. It is most unfortunate that we have had such divisions,
bitterness, and intolerance of others' points of view. I do not think that Parliament is
particularly well equipped to handle the issue, yet the law is there and any amendment to the
law, or even a clarification of it, requires the attention of members of Parliament. The
problem cannot be simply swept under the carpet, though many members wish it could be.
We certainly cannot ship it overseas for someone else to grapple with. Individual members
will simply have to stand up and be counted, completely shed of their party affiliations.
I want to make one brief personal observation. It is generally known-and I have not
changed my views—that I am very strongly opposed to abortion on demand in this country,
and I believe the commission was correct in its considerable emphasis on education about
contraception and sterilisation-in other words, the avoidance of the issue. However, I
believe almost everybody in the country recognises that there are times, particularly when
the life or health of the mother is in danger, when a decision is needed. I am a little
disappointed, particularly in view of the evidence and the knowledge now available to us,
that the Bill still opts for the panel system. I think this shows an insensitivity that borders on
inhumanity, and I commend it to the House to look very closely at this proposal as one that
could be tremendously harmful. Members will have the opportunity to debate it at length. I


## p. 2360 (#816) ###########################################

2360
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
simply emphasise that members on this side will exercise a completely free vote, and I join
with the Prime Minister in urging any member who contemplates an amendment to make the
best use of the qualified people we have to assist us.
Hon. L. W. GANDAR (Minister of Education): The Minister of Justice has informed the
House that I will introduce a Supplementary Order Paper on clause 56, and the Prime
Minister also mentioned it. I take this early opportunity to explain why. The Prime Minister
quite rightly said that the Bill is entirely one of conscience. Any member may introduce
amendments at the appropriate time. However, our election policy contained promises on
the introduction of education on moral issues. The commission's report made some
recommendations that are included in clause 56, but did not go as far as our policy
statement.
Clause 56 implements the first recommendation on page 91 of the royal commission's
report. If the House agrees to clause 56, and this would be done entirely on a free vote,
primary and secondary schools would be required to include in their curricula courses and
studies on human development and relationships. The clause would provide the legal
authority for the Minister of Education to prescribe syllabuses of study and would implement
the principal recommendation of chapter 3 of the report. Clause 56 as it now stands—and
this is entirely in line with the commission's recommendations-refers to courses and
studies. I shall move that the word "studies" be deleted and replaced by "classes".
My reason for the proposed change is that the royal commission recommended that sex
education form an integral part of courses in human development and relationships and not
be treated in isolation. This could be interpreted to mean that courses and studies in human
development and relationships might become so integrated either as a separate course or
with other studies in the school curriculum that it would be difficult or even impossible for
parents to know what was being included and how the school intended to teach it. Such a
possibility has worried some people. The Supplementary Order Paper proposes that the
phrase be amended to "courses and classes", and "class" will mean a group of pupils or
students under instruction for a specified timetable period.
Mr Hunt: Will it include groups of classes?
Hon. L. W. GANDAR: It could include groups of classes, but it will be specified. The
other two proposed amendments have a different justification. Clause 56 of the Bill now
before us will be decided on a conscience vote. It will be voted into the Bill as it finally passes
through the House, or it will be amended in some way, or it will be voted out. If it is voted in
it will have implemented the recommendations of the royal commission for human develop-
ment and relationships courses in schools so far as legislation is required, but it will not have
satisfied the Government's policy as set out in its policy statement at the last election. The
Government is committed by its policy to do two things not recommended by the royal
commission-to ensure consultation with parents by schools before the introduction of
courses in human development and relationships, and to ensure that parents who object to
courses in human development and relationships given in local schools have the right to
withdraw their children from those courses, or from parts of the courses if it is their wish.
Clauses 56A and 56B, which will be incorporated in the Supplementary Order Paper,
ensure that each year before courses and classes in human development and relationships are
taught in a State primary, intermediate, or secondary school, parents and guardians have the
right to be given a clear indication of the proposed content of the course and the nature of
the classes. It would also give a legal right to parents and guardians to withdraw, if they so
wished, their children from attendance in courses and classes on human development and
relationships. This right would apply to all or to any specified part of each course, and there
would also be a power of withdrawal that a parent or guardian could revoke or vary at any
time.
I again remind members of the status of the amendments I have proposed under clauses
56A and 56B as set out in the Supplementary Order Paper. I shall move them if clause 56 of
the Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill is passed by the House on a conscience
vote. If clause 56 is approved by the House it will be necessary for clauses 56A and 56B to be
moved as Government policy in order to carry out our manifesto promise. As far as the
Government is concerned, therefore, clause 56A and clause 56B would not be a matter of
conscience. For this reason the Supplementary Order Paper has been introduced at the same
time as the Bill, and I hope that whenever the Bill is being discussed it will be borne in mind
that the Supplementary Order Paper may form an integral part of it.
Dr WALL (Porirua): I am particularly interested to hear the comments of the Minister


## p. 2361 (#817) ###########################################

19 August
2361
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
of Education, because they clarify a matter that would otherwise. be confusing-a Bill
introduced, and a Supplementary Order Paper introduced with it. I know it is customary to
question the Minister concerning matter contained in a Bill on its introduction, but on this
occasion I ask to be allowed to advance a certain argument because of the provision
announced by the Minister of making assistance from the departments and parliamentary
counsel available to members. This is something we do not normally have in the formulation
and wording of amendments. As members have been asked to consider the amendments
they might move in advance, some argument concerning the advisability of those amend-
ments might be appropriate at this stage, whereas it might not be appropriate at a similar
stage in the introduction of any other Bill.
In particular I am concerned about the highly emotional argument about the provisions
of panels that has already become public. The confusion is indicated by the headlines in the
local papers yesterday, stating that the New Zealand Medical Association rejected panels.
However, on reading the body of the articles, one found that the recommendation by the
NZMA involved more practitioners in the decision-making process than the commission had
recommended to be on the panel. A totally erroneous impression is thus being created by the
headlines when compared with the body of the articles. At this stage we should look at the
fundamental principles behind the panels and ignore the emotional aspects in the argument.
The reason that this matter is before the House is that it is thought proper-and I think
everyone in the House would agree that this procedure should be under some sort of public
control. We must then look at the possible ways of exercising that public control. In the
absence of a publicly administered body making the individual decisions, the woman may go
to any doctor-and nothing in our laws forces anyone to go to any particular doctor-and the
two of them may make a decision, either for or against the abortion. It is not difficult to see
what will rapidly develop in practice. Some practitioners will be known to be reluctant to
agree to abortions in cases where there is slight justification for it. Others will be known to
follow the principle now subscribed to by some practitioners: that the indication for abortion
is that a woman wants one, and that she be not more than 12 weeks pregnant. In that
situation there is no control, yet the whole purpose of the measure before the House is that
there should be some control.
The only way to exercise any form of control is to ensure that those making the decisions
do so in accordance with the principles laid down by the House. If it is to be left to any
woman and any practitioner to make the decision, those making that proposal should
advance to the House in legislative form, properly drafted, the machinery to restore control,
because unless there is some such machinery, which is not yet envisaged in the Bill,
Parliament, by advancing any amendment that would hand over to individual women and
individual practitioners the decision, in fact totally surrenders its control of this procedure.
Panels have been given a bad name simply because those who wish to see no control
whatever in our community over this procedure have chosen to campaign against them. For
at least 40 years the medical profession has used the panel system for a problem that is just as
distressing and urgent, and in which debate as to the right method of treatment is just as
diverse as that in decisions on abortion. I refer to the panels that are run in most
metropolitan hospitals on the treatment of cancer. The problem is similar, there is urgency
of treatment, there is disagreement about the appropriate treatment, and decisions may be
required about where the appropriate treatment should take place. Yet these panels have
given almost universal satisfaction for more than 40 years, and I am sure some of my fellow
practitioners, who condemn the use of the panel system for making decisions on abortion,
would be reluctant to see the panels on the treatment of cancer removed.
We must therefore ask ourselves why a different attitude is taken towards the two
problems. Is it because they want no control in one, but are happy to accept proper and
expert professional advice in the other? Most members have received a letter from Dr
McLean in Invercargill outlining the practice of panels over some years and the degree of
satisfaction given. The evils associated with the panel system, canvassed so widely by the
Abortion Law Reform Association, are not evident in practice. In Invercargill it has been
shown that the delay has not been great-at the outset about two weeks, and often less than
that—and that the referral rate to outside agencies away from Invercargill has been remark-
ably small, even under present conditions, if one goes to the right quarters in New Zealand,
no form of legal sanction is likely to be applied in the decision making on abortion.
The problem is whether or not Parliament intends to maintain any public control over
this procedure. If it does, then those making the decisions must be accountable to some
Inset


## p. 2362 (#818) ###########################################

2362
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
public body. If the intention is to allow the decision to be made privately by individual
practitioners and their patients, I cannot see how workable measures can be applied,
certainly not without further measures. If this decision is taken, it will be a decision by
Parliament to abandon the control of this procedure.
Hon. G. F. GAIR (Minister of Energy Resources): Because of the unusual nature of the
Bill and the free vote situation, the various steps in the passage of the Bill through the House
can be expected to assume a different significance in relation to each other. The introduction
comes as no surprise. The Government and the Minister have done what was publicly
announced and fully understood some months ago—namely, introduced a Bill as close as
possible to the recommendations in the royal commission's report, which called for legisla-
tive response.
The second reading debate is normally seen by the House and the country to give a clear
picture of members' attitudes towards the principles contained in a Bill. The procedures of
the House make possible only three types of response at the second reading stage: approval
of the Bill in principle; postponement of further consideration of the Bill, but only as a
totality; or rejection of the Bill. It is not possible to approve some parts, and postpone or
reject others. We should ask those unfamiliar with parliamentary processes to understand
that, with this Bill, the traditional summation of the outcome of the second reading debate
cannot be relied upon, because the prospects for change, which can only be made at the later
Committee stage, will, or could, do much to change the character of the Bill, even in its
fundamentals. I expect, therefore, that the second reading "aye" vote will include many
members whose only reason for support is to have the opportunity to amend the Bill
according to their wishes during the Committee stage. I, for one, will be in that category.
I know the Minister hopes that those members with amendments to propose in the
Committee stage will make their intentions known during the second reading debate.
However, there is a limit to the degree to which this can be done, because the need, or
otherwise, to propose amendments in some of the later clauses will depend directly upon the
success or otherwise of certain amendments in earlier clauses. This clearly means that the
Committee stage becomes very important, except that by the nature of things the debate on
the short title can have no more importance than the second reading debate in trying to
establish the true mood of Parliament and the will of members. This cannot be determined
until all clauses have been put and individually considered, and assessed in the light of such
amendments as the House may at various stages agree to. To me, therefore, the approval in
principle or otherwise must lie with the decision of the third reading debate. Then, and not
until then, will members know what they are being asked to commit themselves to in terms
of the total legislative package.
I am sure the House and the country will want to use the next 4 weeks or so between the
introduction of the Bill and the second reading to study the Bill carefully and to prepare
those amendments that are considered necessary. To my mind, the House must abandon the
idea that there is any chance of placing restrictions on either side of this issue. It is important
that the end result be a practical measure that can be made to work, and that must-and is
seen to meet the essential needs of those who are themselves directly involved. The Bill is
full of potential red herrings. An example is the royal commission's recommendation on how
to cope with cases of rape. No matter what the commission might recommend, or this Bill
might propose, 99 doctors out of 100 would see it as their duty to recommend an abortion for
a woman made pregnant by rape. Let us not imagine that we can make a token gesture to the
liberal conscience by removing the rape clause and leaving some of the more serious and
quite unacceptable features which, to me, are obvious throughout the Bill
I take this opportunity of informing the Minister and the House that I believe there is a
credible alternative to the abortion proposals in the Bill. I will undertake, with the help of a
committee of doctors and social workers who have associated with me in this study, to have
the alternative ready for the House by the time of the second reading. Whatever the answer
finally selected, three elements in the Bill as introduced deserve our special attention. First,
there is a need to remove the provision for panels, and, instead, rely upon members of the
medical profession acting in good faith; second, there is a need to remove the supervisory
committee, or certainly render it beyond the reach of the influence of abortion politics, if
that is indeed possible, by a most careful redefinition of its role; and, third, there is a need to
bring back into focus the fact that the real answer must lie with the integrity of the medical
profession, and any question of the doctor acting in good faith being required to prove his
blamelessness or defend his actions taken in good faith must be removed.


## p. 2363 (#819) ###########################################

19 August
2363
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
The precedent we seek may well be present in the authority required to take away a
person's liberty and commit him to a mental institution, by which two doctors, quite
unrelated in professional practice, must certify, and the certification must have the concurr-
ence of a third person, namely, a magistrate. To me, the equivalent in the text of this Bill is
that the decision to have an abortion should be made by the woman, the woman's own
doctor, a second doctor professionally unrelated to the first, and the operating doctor. I
believe this formula would be acceptable to the medical profession, and would be workable
in practice and acceptable to the majority of New Zealanders. I ask my fellow members to
give this proposal the careful study I believe it deserves before the Bill enters its next stage.
Hon. Dr A. M. FINLAY (Henderson): I consider that the royal commission's report is
not free from blemish. I believe some of its logic can be faulted, and some of its proposals
could be impracticable. It follows, therefore, that a Bill based on that report and setting out
to give effect to the recommendations is itself likely to be defective and unworkable.
However, it would be wrong to say more about the Bill at this stage without the close study it
deserves, and I do not propose to do so. As to the measure before us, I simply want to add
that I believe nothing would be gained by referring it to a committee. In my view that would
be a negative and not a positive step, serving only to polarise attitudes and doing nothing to
bring people closer together, and being most unlikely to shed any further knowledge on a
problem that has been the subject of immense research and investigation.
I am obliged to the Minister of Energy Resources for the useful contribution he has
made. His comments on the merits of the Bill appeal to me. They may encounter some
dissent from others, but I believe all will agree with the Minister's summation of the
procedural steps that should be followed. If we are to have any tidiness in our discussion, I
think the course he has charted for us is not only an admirable one, but the only one. I want
simply to make one point-and that very clearly-that I do not favour, nor do I support,
abortion on request, much less abortion on demand. I do not know anyone who does. In the
last analysis, no invasion of the human body, whether medical or surgical, should be
tolerated, unless in the opinion of the medical practitioner it is safe to do so and advantage-
ous to the patient. As no acceptable technique for inducing abortion without aid from others
is known at any rate to me, and I believe to anyone-it follows that the final decision
whether to act-whether to operate or not-is that of a doctor. I believe that no doctor
should agree to act until he is satisfied that his patient has had proper and adequate
counselling, and come to a firm and responsible conclusion.
Counselling, or advice, as we simply used to know it, should not be merely medical and
social-or, if you prefer it, sociological, or to use the term adopted by the New Zealand
Medical Association, psycho-social-but should encompass spiritual aspects and values.
When I use the word "spiritual" I do not necessarily confine it to religious or sacred
concepts. In my judgment it extends, or should extend, into the secular realm, and involve
an honest contemplation of the inner self, and the intangibles that go to make up what we
call ideals.
But it is said that there is another interest to be considered, and another voice to be
heard. Indeed, there is. If we want to put an emotional gloss on the argument we call it the
unborn child; if we want to be rather more dispassionate we refer to it as—and I prefer to
adopt the term-the foetus. Who is most attuned to that voice, and can best hear and
translate into sounds audible to us just what it is saying? Some people—I am bound to
describe them as pressure groups-have appointed themselves as spokesmen, and even as
advocates, claiming a clear mandate to demand on its behalf a right to be born. But is it not
conceivable that if the foetus were able to weigh up all relevant factors, and able to express a
preference, it might have a different, perhaps a contrary, view? Which is likely to be the
more accurate channel, the more reliable interpreter-a self-appointed committee, or the
woman actually in physical contact with the life not yet in being (and I say that with personal
conviction)? She alone is capable of making it live. Who, above all else, is capable of
assessing not only the fact of that life, but its likely quality?
In a recent issue of the Tablet the member for Hamilton West was chided in an article
headed "Minogue loses his sense of priorities". As it happens, I am in general agreement
with the views of the member for Hamilton West on this topic, but I also agree with this
passage found in the critical comment of the Tablet. It states: "M.P.s should no longer be
asking, 'What do I think about the abortion question?'; they should be asking, ‘Regardless of
what I think about the abortion question, what do I think are the proper limits to the extent
to which a democratic Government can purport to interfere with individual liberties?'
The


## p. 2364 (#820) ###########################################

2364
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
significant phrase is "individual liberties". It is not to be construed as individual whims or
individual caprices. To seek lightly or casually to have a pregnancy terminated could be such
a whim or caprice, and might well be one in respect of which the State would be entitled to
enter constraints. But, in my judgment, a conclusion thoughtfully and conscientiously
reached after consideration of all significant facts is a liberty with which the State has no right
to interfere. I believe that intervention of an impersonal group of people called a panel,
which seems to me have unavoidable bureaucratic elements built into its make-up, would
constitute such an interference.
On that score, if on none other, I find it impossible to accept the panel system
recommendation made by the commission, and apparently adopted by the Bill. That is the
only point I want to make, and, in order to save the time of the House, which is limited this
morning, I have the authority of my colleague the member for New Lynn to say that, as to
that aspect of the legislation, he adopts a similar view.
Hon. T. F. GILL (Minister of Health): I commend the royal commission on the very
fine result it achieved after extremely hard work, and after hearing submissions from some
most learned people, and many feeling people who, perhaps, were not so learned. The
commission was well balanced, comprising three men and three women of considerable
experience. They made a thorough study, and their decision was unanimous. When I
introduced a Bill into the House last year I did not get the right to reply to everything that
was said, because the Bill was stayed on the vote.
I feel that the member for Henderson was rather taking the Tablet out of context, or
perhaps he believed that was what it was saying. I believe that when it talked about the
liberty of the individual, it recognised the unborn child as an individual with a right to life. I
would not like the member to misquote the Tablet. I am concerned whether any of us
listening to anything said in the House might take it at its face value, when constraints of
party, caucus, or policy, have been removed.
The member for North Shore' said that he, with a group of doctors and social workers
working with him as a team, would produce something for the House. I remind the House
that one has to listen very carefully, and study what people say. Last year's Bill, which is now
in limbo for ever, was really postponed because the member for North Shore gave a
categorical assurance-they were his words to the House-that there was no abortion on
demand at the Aotea clinic, and that he had the evidence to prove it. The royal commission
has stated categorically that there was virtually abortion on request there. We had an
instance earlier last year when a member of the House was found by a committee of inquiry
to have misled the House. Sometimes when people are speaking without restraints they
might say things they might not stand by in the House. The Leader of the Opposition and the
member for Henderson have both said that they abhor the idea of, and gave the impression
that they would not in any circumstances accept, abortion on demand or request. But then
they made it quite clear in what they said about the panel system that they are prepared to
risk that, because I think they know that without that sort of panel system abortion on
demand or request will develop.
A headline in this morning's paper states that the committee on women knocked panel
abortion, and the article states that the committee on women felt that proposals for a
statutory committee to develop abortion law constituted a vote of no-confidence in the
medical profession. It does not, of course, and the view of the New Zealand Medical
Association, which speaks for the medical profession, is that there should be this supervising
body. The NZMA recognises that it can no longer be assumed that all members of the
medical profession have equally high standards, equal moral attitudes, or an equally ethical
approach to the day-to-day problems they are faced with. The NZMA must clearly recognise
that that is not the case, and I think that anybody who has studied the subject in any depth
has recognised that it does not take many medical men with low ethical standards to
absolutely break any system we might try to introduce, and allow abortion on demand and
abortion on request to develop immediately.
I spoke some time ago to a division of the NZMA which had passed a resolution that it
would accept abortion on demand or abortion on request in the first 12 weeks. In my address
I mentioned the Hippocratic oath and the Helsinki Declaration. At question time, somebody
from the floor said to me, "Why do you refer to the Hippocratic oath and the Helsinki
Declaration? We in this division do not subscribe to that at all." I said: "I am surprised and
concerned and so will 90 percent of New Zealanders be concerned-to know about that. I
believe it to be of very great concern that a large body of doctors"-I did not take a head


## p. 2365 (#821) ###########################################

19 August
2365
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
count, but between 50 and 100 doctors were present—"can say that they do not subscribe to
the Hippocratic oath or the Helsinki Declaration. What ethical standards do they have?"
That worried me very much, and it still does. I have inquired into the position more closely,
and have asked the Medical Council-the body that registers doctors-to examine it. The
council's letter to me contained something like this, "We are very glad you have drawn that
question to our attention." I have also spoken with the chairman of the Medical Association,
and it was news to him that doctors no longer take the Hippocratic oath or an oath of any
kind. We require estate agents who join the Real Estate Institute to conform to a code of
ethics. Indeed, we require that of members of most professions, and I stress that it was a
great surprise to me that members of the medical profession are no longer interested in or
required to conform to any ethical code at all. In the medical handbook one finds the
Hippocratic oath, the Helsinki Declaration, and an admonition to abide by them, but
apparently nobody gives any undertaking to do so. That would be a danger, if there were no
panel system.
Panel systems have been operating very successfully for many years in New Zealand.
However, it appears that "panel" has become a very nasty word, like "racist". One can
always conclude an argument by saying, “That is racist.” Anyone to whom that statement is
put will be horrified that what he or she has said can be associated with racism, and will
immediately duck for cover and run away from the argument. These days one can stop
almost any argument in some circles by speaking about panels, as that word too has been
made to appear nasty. A previous speaker referred to Kew Hospital, where for 10 years Dr
McLean has been running panels which have exercised all the compassion, restraint, and
patience necessary. Certainly, they are run very successfully and efficiently.
In the Bill I find no suggestion that under the panel system three or four, or maybe even
two, beady-eyed doctors have to interview a patient who is distraught and worried about a
medical condition. The suggestion that the patient's own doctor cannot be associated with
the panel is nonsense. As the Bill is written, a panel can review the case of a patient only
when she has been referred by her doctor or a family planning clinic. Therefore the patient's
doctor is involved at the very earliest stage, and the panel can call on the doctor at any time.
Clause 34 provides that, "The function of every panel is to review every case referred to it
... by a registered medical practitioner or family planning clinic". Therefore, nothing can
happen without a recommendation from the patient's doctor or a family planning clinic,
which has a doctor on its staff.
The next point I make may be of importance when discussing panels. They have been
described as overriding and overbearing. I was surprised to hear the Leader of the
Opposition say a panel was inhuman, or something of that sort. I was surprised, because I
regard such a statement as a terrific insult to the many very good people who have carried
out excellent work as members of panels over very many years. The Leader of the
Opposition should have inquired into the position a little more closely before making such a
sweeping condemnation of existing panels. Clause 36(5) provides, "As soon as practicable
after receiving such written notice, the Panel shall consider the case and shall, unless it
considers it unnecessary or undesirable to do so, interview the patient." That provision could
have been worded the other way round, and might have been more explicit if it had been,
but the Bill clearly provides that panels shall interview patients unless they consider it
unnecessary or undesirable to do so. Does any member of the House consider that two
doctors who constitute a panel-and it has been suggested that two doctors will make the
decision should not, if they feel it necessary or desirable, interview the patient and ensure
that they have all the answers? Of course they would do that; they must. How could they
carry out their responsibilities as doctors on a committee or panel-call it what you like—if
they did not make a responsible decision? Unless they consider it unnecessary or undesirable
to interview the patient, they will certainly do so. I am sure the patient, and everyone else for
that matter, would consider that desirable, and the Bill provides for it. However, they will
not interview patients unless they consider it necessary or desirable.
I do not want to speak at great length. It was intended to introduce the Bill and give
members the opportunity to study it and make comments, but because debating material was
brought into the first reading I felt I should reply to it. I was denied the right of reply on the
Bill I introduced earlier, and I am taking this opportunity to express some of my views. I
hope people will study the Bill seriously and not accept at face value what is said by the
Leader of the Opposition, the member for Henderson, or myself. I reiterate that I hope that
most people, if they are really opposed to abortion on demand or abortion on request, will


## p. 2366 (#822) ###########################################

2366
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
consider the situation seriously, and recognise the position that would be reached very
quickly if a panel of doctors was not required to make the decisions. The doctors appointed
will be known for their integrity, not for their bias one way or another.
Some suspicions have been voiced about the status of such committees. They will be in
exactly the same position as the Chief Ombudsman, and will report to Parliament, not to the
Minister of Justice or to the Minister of Health. The committee's behaviour will be beyond
reproach. Anyone appointed to a panel will not have strong pro-abortion or anti-abortion
views. People of integrity will be appointed, who will make decisions in accordance with the
law, and on the merits of the cases.
Mrs BATCHELOR (Avon): First I should like to thank the Minister for ensuring that
copies of the Bill were available to us for a longer period than is normal on the introduction
of a Bill. I do not intend to deal with the Bill clause by clause at this stage, but in fairness to
the royal commission and to the legislation itself we should look at some of the positive
aspects. Therefore I should like to refer to the part dealing with contraception and
education. These may go some way towards ensuring that future generations of women will
not have to make a choice on whether or not they will have an abortion.
However, I find that I am not in agreement with the commission's report on some other
matters dealt with by previous speakers, and to a very large extent by the Minister of Health.
I have thought seriously about this, but from the information we have received from the New
Zealand Medical Association, the New Zealand Law Society, a group of Wellington women
lawyers, women's organisations, and individuals, I cannot see how the system will work. All
this makes me realise that that provision is not suitable for women in New Zealand and is not
wanted. That is something we tend to forget. What we are really talking about is something
that affects women. In other words, over 50 percent of society will be affected by this
legislation, yet, this House, made up predominantly of males, will have its say in enforcing
what it believes is right. This matter was covered fairly well in a comment made by the
Wellington women lawyers: "Where society is divided on a moral issue it is wrong for the
Government to interfere and legislate to enforce one side of the argument on pain of
criminal sanctions on members of society who do not hold that point of view." In other
words, what we tend to do is stop the freedom of choice. Those who do not want an abortion
are not compelled to have one, while those who do want one are stopped from having it.
The previous speaker spoke at some length about ethics, but frankly I wonder just what
ethics mean to some people. I do not think it is ethical to refer in this debate to an incident
when, according to the Minister, somebody misled the House. That the panel recommenda-
tion requires review has come through very clearly from the people whose views should be
most respected—the doctors. Social workers and women lawyers are also against that
recommendation. Surely doctors, who are experienced in health matters and particularly the
health of women, should be listened to with some respect. The proposal in the Bill will
separate a woman from her own doctor, at a time when she most needs him.
I know that some women in our society-I believe a very small minority-are
completely and utterly selfish and think of nothing but themselves and their own wishes, but
that type of woman would probably make a very poor parent, anyway. We seem to spend
our time insisting that women have children when perhaps we should be thinking about
quality rather than quantity in parenthood and teaching people to be good parents. That
would make for a better society.
When a women has to decide whether she will carry on with an unwanted pregnancy or
seek an abortion she finds herself in a very difficult situation. She is in need of assistance in
making this decision, and that assistance can best come from someone she trusts and has
faith in. Who better than her own doctor? An appearance before a panel of people she does
not know would be extremely humiliating, and I cannot understand why it is necessary. It is
all very well to talk about other panels in the health service, but this particular panel cannot
be likened to anything else.
The Minister of Health said that clause 33 stated that the supervisory committee shall
have regard to the desirability of appointing persons whose assessment of cases will not be
coloured by their personal views in relation to abortion generally. I wonder how the
supervisory committee will achieve that. This is one subject on which it has been proved that
people have definite views.
I believe the Bill should go to a select committee, and I say that recognising what the
Prime Minister has said about interested parties having had the opportunity to make
submissions to the royal commission. Normally I would agree with that, but this is very


## p. 2367 (#823) ###########################################

19 August
2367
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
different because there has been such an outcry over this particular recommendation since
the report was published. Even members of the commission have had second thoughts about
the panel system. For this reason, if for no other, the legislation should go before a select
committee so that people who are now expressing their opposition to the panel system can
have the opportunity of making submissions. This aspect was apparently not canvassed at
any great length by the royal commission, otherwise people would not be expressing their
opposition to it now. If it had been canvassed more thoroughly the commission would
possibly not have brought down this recommendation. Members are to be given about 6
weeks to consider the Bill, and I believe we should make the most of that time by allowing
people to make submissions to a select committee.
Hon. Mrs T. W. M. TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN (Southern Maori): Under clause 3, the
law relating to the availability of contraception to people under the age of 16 is not
appreciably changed. I believe there is scant recognition of the fact that New Zealand has the
third highest teenage pregnancy rate in the industrialised world, and that adolescent mothers
face a 60 percent higher maternal death risk, as well as a higher rate of toxaemia and
anaemia. It should also be realised that little is done about the needs of the rejected child,
although much is said about the rights of the unborn child. Society has not yet provided
acceptable alternatives to the compulsory carriage to full term of an unwanted pregnancy.
Following a mother's decision that she cannot care for the expected child, society must step
in and provide acceptable and adequate alternative care if it compels her to bear that child.
The Bill would stop the work of the Aotea clinic, which performs 4000 legal abortions a
year. Under a new section in the Crimes Act these abortions would still be legal, and the
House, therefore, should not proceed with this measure until an assurance is given by the
Department of Health that facilities to perform a similar number of abortions with the same
speed and safety can be guaranteed in the public sector. It would be irresponsible to do
anything to impede the work of the Auckland clinic until such an assurance is given,
assuming that abortions will still be needed and sought by women.
The Bill creates a conflict between the statutory functions of the Department of Health
and the new supervisory committee, in that the duty to license institutions for certain
purposes would overlap and possibly be contradictory. The Bill is in direct contradiction to
the spirit and the provisions of another Bill at present before the House-the Human Rights
Commission Bill, which states in clause 22(1)(b) that it shall be unlawful to supply facilities
or services on less favourable terms by reason of a person's sex. I believe that the Bill we are
discussing violates the human rights of those women who believe they cannot cope with
carrying a pregnancy through to full term. Must we, as women, be compelled to accept that
we are carriers of life, despite our private will and all our intellectual comprehension that we
do not wish at a given time of our lives to accept this role?
The Bill has clauses that contravene a woman's personal liberty, because freedom from
unwanted reproduction is the very essence of women's equality. The Bill does not acknow-
ledge a woman's right to determine her own maternity—that is, to control her reproduction
potential. The oppression of woman is derived from her womanness. Her biological
difference has been used to build social structures and a supportive ideology of female
submission—an ideology so entrenched that woman herself has come to believe it. This is a
pity, for women are themselves divided on this issue because of that. So this issue alone has,
unfortunately, created and sustained division among women at a time when, through the
thrust of the feminist movement, they are striving for complete emancipation of themselves
as individuals. Abortion is a woman's issue, and it is fundamental to a woman's ability to
participate equally in society. New Zealand women must have the right to choose.
The Bill introduces a panel system that is likely to result in those who successfully
manoeuvre this maze being ultimately too far along in gestation to be legally aborted. Nor
does the panel system respect a woman's right to the privacy and the confidentiality of
counselling sought of her own volition with people of her own choice. Instead, she will be
compulsorily directed to a group of people she may never have met or known, and though
under considerable stress, will be forced to accept their decision even if it is diametrically
opposed to her own. This violation of the human rights of women is probably my strongest
reason for opposing many provisions in the Bill; and I give notice that I shall be seeking to
introduce amendments.
The measure is based on a royal commission report, which has a fatal flaw-it sought a
compromise despite the impossibility of compromise on this issue. Either the foetus is a
human being and there can be no justification for abortion, or it is not and there can be


## p. 2368 (#824) ###########################################

2368
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
justification. It is totally unjust for any one group in our community to invoke the power of
the State to stop those of a contrary view from using their own judgment. This Bill,
therefore, makes it possible unjustly to compel people against their own decision. There is
really no manoeuvre in the Bill, as I see it, for both views to be accommodated. Over 40
women legal graduates and practitioners, meeting for the first time in Wellington, consi-
dered any law based on the royal commission's report to be repressive. Inasmuch as the Bill
is repressive-and I believe it is-it removes the liberty of choice of the individuals who do
not subscribe to the rationale behind it. Thus it ignores the reality that abortion is a fact of
life practised in all cultures and civilisations from time immemorial; and Maori culture is no
exception.
The need for abortion has long been demonstrated, and women will continue to seek it
outside the provisions of this Bill, if necessary. It will revive the traffic in back-street
abortions. The State should not have the power to place people in this situation at risk. It is a
law that the rich can very skilfully circumnavigate, because they are wealthier than others.
New Zealand women who cannot afford a trip across the Tasman will find themselves in a
new discriminated-against group. For the rich, the whole system can be sidestepped by a trip
to Australia, as everyone knows.
The Bill is unworkable as it is. There are not enough qualified social workers to service
our present social services, let alone the new role introduced for them in the Bill. Therefore,
the Bill is unworkable with our present resources, and should not be introduced until we
have adequate social service resources. Furthermore, it requires the co-operation of the
medical profession. A significant proportion of both groups has publicly dissociated itself
from the report on which the Bill is based. How, then, will Parliament provide the resources
for it?
The panel system, which I consider is unnecessary, expensive, unsuitable, unworkable,
and cumbersome, will cause delays and be degrading for the women concerned. The system
is degrading because the woman has no part in the final decision, and neither does her
doctor, her counsellor, or her social worker, unless one happens to be chosen as a panel
member. The system also interferes with the tradition of confidentiality between doctor and
patient, which ethos is as important to social workers as the Hippocratic oath is to medical
practitioners. That is one of the reasons members of the New Zealand Social Workers
Association have dissociated themselves from the report of the royal commission.
What is the legal status of the panel envisaged in the Bill? Can a woman be represented
by her solicitor? Will a woman have the right of appeal against the decision of the panel? Is
the decision to be absolutely final? Will a panel of three people not known to the woman be
able to make a final decision on her case despite her subjective awareness of the acute stress
that that decision will exacerbate? As I have said, bureaucratic systems are liable to cause
delays, which in relation to an abortion would mean a later and less safe operation for the
woman. We would be wiser legislators if legislation such as this were more thoroughly
considered. Compulsory counselling is contrary to the development of good counselling
relationships, but that is one of the basic devices employed in the panel system introduced in
this Bill. Compulsory attendance at State-approved counselling services removes the free-
dom of choice. The panel system is not only unworkable, but is unjust and inhumane to the
extent that any woman under stress has to go before an anonymous group of strangers.
Opposition members have not had the Bill long enough to consider it in depth. The
provisions relating to contraception are inadequate. As we all know, no method of
contraception other than total abstinence is guaranteed to be totally effective. The essential
tools by which a woman can determine reproduction are not available, and are not made
more acceptable in the Bill. Therefore, the injustice is entrenched at a time when it could
have been removed. The existing laws relating to contraception should have been amended
to make it possible for contraceptives to be available to all.
Rape is not regarded in the provisions of the Bill as an adequate reason for granting a
woman a legal abortion. Rape is a crime. The woman victim who wishes to disgorge from her
body the repugnant results of her molester's lust is not able to do so, and therefore the Bill
makes the woman as much of a criminal as her rapist. Where is the justice in that? It is
contradictory and inhumane. After a violent brutal rape a woman may become pregnant,
and for 9 months she must not consider any alternative to carrying through the pregnancy
and bearing a criminal's child, a molester's child. The rapist probably introduced the woman
to the greatest trauma of her life-but rape is not to be regarded as sufficient reason for an
abortion.


## p. 2369 (#825) ###########################################

19 August
2369
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
The Bill is based on the report of the commission, which considered that the morning-
after pill or the IUD was all that was needed for the victim of a rape. The report notes
correctly that neither method is effective if given after 72 hours. Studies indicate that the
morning-after pill is not 100 percent effective. Nor did the royal commission's report inform
New Zealand women that the drug in the pill, diathylstilbestrol, is the same drug that,
administered to women in America to prevent miscarriage, resulted in an unprecedented
epidemic of vaginal cancer in their female offspring, and a higher than normal incidence of
sterility in their male offspring. Yet that was the drug recommended in the commission's
report. Given the rate of pregnancy from a single act of unprotected intercourse as estimated
by the population council as being between only 4 percent and 10 percent, this degree of
risky overkill of offering the morning-after pill is highly questionable; yet the royal
commission's recommendation is contained in the Bill.
So is the practice of inserting an IUD in an already traumatised woman in the vain hope
that a little piece of plastic will end her anguish. That I consider to be equally questionable—
and all this when a simple menstrual extraction or early suction abortion procedure could be
performed by a competent medically qualified person without any great risk. Instead, we
have a bureaucratic creation which, to my mind, constitutes a violation of the human rights
of those women who do not wish to carry a pregnancy to full term. I speak as a woman, as a
mother, and as one who subjectively experienced soul-searching anxiety about my third
pregnancy. Under this Bill, women beyond the normal child-bearing years have no right to
seek an abortion no matter how much anxiety they may feel about the dangers and risks
involved; nor have those of teen or sub-teen age. We are third in the industrialised world in
our incidence of teenage pregnancies, yet, unless excepted by the panel, those pregnancies
must go through.
My final observation is that if every child were a wanted child—and the Bill does not
provide for that-society would be transformed. We would see the positive effect in our
criminal statistics and in statistics relating to many other phenomena arising in our social
scene-the unemployable, unemployed youth, and others who contravene our laws. I
suspect that many of those younger people were unwanted children. I look forward to
participating again in the debate on this Bill and to introducing some amendments along the
lines of my criticism.
Mr COOPER (Otago Central): I find myself at a disadvantage, as I can speak only as a
father. I pay tribute to the royal commission, comprising three men and three women, which
sat for 79 days and listened to 10 500 pages of evidence on a complex subject. It was a most
comprehensive review of abortion. I cannot for a moment think that sending the Bill to a
select committee would do any good at all. Here we have 87 people in a very comprehensive
select committee who, over the next 6 or 8 weeks, will be plagued and pressured, pulled and
directed in various ways, on the proposed legislation and their attitudes to the issue. The
royal commission found that the current law on abortion was undefined, lacking in certainty,
varied in practice, and unfair. The interpretations varied from area to area, and outlooks
have changed within those areas.
Last year we had an amending Bill, and any change in the law was set aside until after
September of this year. Many people felt that the royal commission's report would be the
panacea for this very real social problem. Many said, "Wait for the royal commission's
report, and that will heal it." I must confess that I am a little concerned about the emphasis
being put on the panels in the discussion today. I would be wary of those who feel that the
modification of the panels will lead to a better law. I would be interested if the Minister of
Energy Resources, who said that he is working with a panel of doctors and social workers,
could make his amendments public as quickly as possible so that they can be introduced into
the discussion and people can let us know their attitudes.
However, I suspect that some of these moves towards dismantling the panel system
reflect a liberal emphasis. The report stated about the panels that the decision making would
best ensure the fair and objective working of the abortion law. In recommending a panel
system, the report emphasised that particular attention should be given to treating the
patient with care, courtesy, and consideration, to adequate counselling of the patient, to
speedy assessment of each case, and to prompt referral to hospital or clinic, or supportive
services. I am not certain, but I tend to feel that if the provision for panels is modified to any
great extent it will lead to the woman's right to choose, which is what people in many
sections want. There is absolutely not one whit of difference between the woman's right to
choose and abortion on demand.


## p. 2370 (#826) ###########################################

2370
19 August
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion Bill
I believe that the changes in regard to incest are overdue. I could never accept that a girl
who became pregnant as a result of incest should carry that baby. I am still not absolutely
certain about the proposed law on rape, but it is interesting to observe that in the State of
Colorado, where abortion became legal if rape was the means of inducing pregnancy, 290
abortions took place over a period of years, but not one conviction on rape was associated
with any of those abortions.
I certainly think we have to discuss the rights of the unborn child, because we live in a
country with a very sophisticated social welfare system. I believe the Bill has many other
important factors, and that we are inclined to be a little obsessed with the abortion issue. I
find little to dispute in the attitude towards education and contraception, because I firmly
believe that the pluralistic society in which we live must look progressively at the problems of
a permissive society, and do something about educating young people to take the necessary
precautions if they are not of the ilk that they can say "no". A panel in Invercargill has been
operating for 10 years and has proved very good. I hope that members read the letter from
the gynaecologist about a panel working effectively in New Zealand conditions. I hope that
members will read the long report by the royal commission, rather than the headlines in the
daily newspapers.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD (Deputy Leader of the Opposition): I wonder whether members
opposite, who as part of the Government are responsible for bringing the legislation to the
House, will see their individual responsibilities correctly when they come to considering their
vote. We have heard a lot about the effective method of contraception being the woman's
right to say "no". Will members opposite compare that with the right of a married woman
under the law today? A married woman does not have an absolute right to say "no" to her
husband, and therefore does not have the right to decide whether she bears a child. A few
surveys have been taken, and I am sure that members opposite have had the benefit of some
of them.
Mr Allen: The old rattlesnake is at it again.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I heard a very offensive remark from the member for Tauranga,
and I would ask you, Mr Deputy Speaker, to call him to order.
Rt. Hon. R. D. Muldoon: A point of order, Mr Deputy Speaker. This debate is about a
Bill on which there is a free vote. The member is commencing to debate as though the
measure is a party political one. It is no wonder he gets offensive remarks from this side of
the House.
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: We do not need to discuss this matter much further.
Objection has been raised by the Deputy Leader of the Opposition to a comment he heard
and attributes to the honourable member for Tauranga. I did not hear the comment, but
perhaps the honourable member for Tauranga would be good enough to withdraw it if he
made it.
Mr Allen: I withdraw the remark that the old rattlesnake it at it again.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I took exception to that remark, because it is the third time it has
been heard today. For the Prime Minister to try to impute it to this debate-
Mr DEPUTY SPEAKER: Order! We will not have any further discussion on that point
of order. It has been dealt with, and is finished with.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I want to make it quite clear that all members have had the
advantage of the results of surveys taken about the views of women on this subject. We have
very few women in the House, and at this stage I simply want to appeal to the men to
consider this matter from the viewpoint of the other half of the electorate, because a lot of
glib phrases have been uttered about a woman's right to say no. As I indicated at the start of
my speech, a married woman does not have an absolute right to say no.
An Hon. Member: Speak for your own family.
Hon. R. J. TIZARD: I am referring to the law. I can well understand that members
opposite have faced that problem. If that is the tone of the debate, the free vote that
members opposite talk about will be a mockery. I simply want to point out the legal position.
Here, we are playing with a legal remedy to a very human problem. All I ask is that members
opposite should not vote on the purely legalistic interpretation. We have to see the personal
and human elements, and I do not think that this Bill does. I will not oppose it absolutely.
There are some clauses in relation to contraception and sterilisation with which I agree, but
certainly I cannot support the whole of the Bill.
Bill introduced and read a first time.
The House adjourned at 1 p.m.


## p. 2371 (#827) ###########################################



## p. 2372 (#828) ###########################################



## p. i (#829) ##############################################

NEW ZEALAND
Index to
Parliamentary Debates
Third Session, Thirty-eighth Parliament, 1977
VOLUME 412 Pages 1553-2370
EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS
IR, 2R, 3R First, Second, and Third Readings. Com, Committee of the Whole or Committed, div.
Division. e, Estimates. intro, Introduction. m, Motion. pet, Petition. q, Question. res, Resolutions
wq, Written Question
ADAMS-SCHNEIDER, Hon. L. R., M.P. (Minis-
ter of Trade and Industry)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2015-19
Trade and Industry-
NAFTA-improvement of trade imbalance
with Australia, 2017
-position of relationship between ministers
and of trade imbalance, 2016
-protection tariffs and quotas by Austra-
lian Government, 2017
AGRICULTURE-
Apples-export prices, q, 1617
Brucellosis and Tb eradication schemes-staff
numbers, q, 1579
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd, q, 1813
Economic and production statistics, q, 2318
Economic measures provided to help new
farmers starting out, 2038,9
Farming-
Farm employee accommodation, 1939,42,50,
2039
Farm prices, Whangarei County, q, 2045
Financial development in farming, 1774
Land settlement scheme, 2034,9
Vendor finance scheme, 1665
Young farmers-financial difficulties, 1595
Freezing industry-
Depreciation allowances on new and altered
buildings, 2039
Hygiene expenditure assistance, q, 1758
Importance to economy, 1983
Livestock incentive scheme-
Stock unit increase-reduction in minimum
qualifying numbers, 1665, 1800, 1939
Noxious weeds-
Noxious plants control scheme, 2039
Poison: 1080 with apple pulp attractant, q,
2318
AGRICULTURE—continued
Primary industry-productivity, 1944
Proposals for gaining access to overseas markets,
1776
Proposals for increasing exports, 1775
Ruakura Animal Research Station-new abat-
toir, q, 2320
Sheep measles cysts, wq 2219
Sheep returns-statistics for East Coast, q, 1911
ALLEN Mr K. R., M.P. (Parliamentary Under-
Secretary to Minister of Trade and Industry)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2028-32
Bay of Plenty Harbour Board Empowering, IR
1925
Development of Tauranga port to relieve con-
gestion at Auckland, 2031
Housing development, 2032
Internal economic structure, 2029
National transport plan, proposed-co-
ordinating all modes under one operating
management, 2030
ARTHUR, Hon. Sir BASIL M.P.—
Agriculture-
Dominion Fertiliser Ltd, q, 1813
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, 1R 1679-80
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1885-9
Carriage of Goods, IR 2129
Noxious Animals, 1R 2353,5
Potato Growing Industry, IR 1555,9
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust,
IR 1921
Civil Aviation-
NAC and Air New Zealand co-operation,
wq 1819
Sig 1


## p. ii (#830) #############################################

ii
INDEX
ARTHUR, Hon. Sir BASIL, M.P.-continued
Economy-cost of living affecting the family,
1886
Education-
Secondary school-Pages Road, Timaru, wq
1844
Railways-
Railway line upgrading, Otago, 9, 2132
Tradesmen's wage relativity, wq 1819
Regional Development-
Assistance-South Canterbury, wq 1821
Tax structure, 1886
Transport-
Changes by Government-long distance fee,
1889
Freight rates, 4, 1810
Pricing policy, q, 1994
Road transport-
Extension of 40-mile limit, 1887
Heavy motor vehicle licences, q, 2162
Vehicles-new distance charge, q, 2083,6
Secondary ports-wool shipping schedule, 9,
2211
Works and Development-
Contracting industry, 9, 2048
ARTS
Difficulties during economic climate, 1899
Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council-
Council for Maori and Polynesian arts, 1967
Maori arts and culture committee, 1938
ATTORNEY-GENERAL-
Supreme Court-temporary judges, wq 1845
AUDIT-
Estimates, e, 2322
Housing-
AUSTIN, Mr H. N., M.P.—
Hotel accommodation-tavern levy fund,
1722
9,
Labour-
Slaughtermen-seasonal pay statistics, q, 2314
BAILEY, Hon. R. L., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1932-6
Budget-Opposition viewpoint, 1932
Carriage of Goods, IR 2129
Ministry of Energy, IR 1567
Noxious Animals, IR 2355
Energy Resources-
On-shore oil prospecting licences, q, 2212
Health centre-Upper Hutt, wg 1842
Housing loans—mortgage market, 1935
National superannuation, 1935
Railway engine drivers-emigrants, wq 1818
Regional Development-
Assistance Wairarapa, wq 1826
Road transport haulage-extension of 40-mile
limit, 1933
Works and Development-
Contractors, q, 2042
Contractors' plant, q, 2164
BARCLAY, Mr BRUCE, M.P.—
Agriculture-
Financial development in farming, 1774
BARCLAY, Mr BRUCE, M.P.-continued
Agriculture continued
Meat-freezing industry-hygiene expenditure
assistance, q, 1758
Proposals for gaining access to overseas
markets, 1776
Proposals for increasing exports, 1775
Sheep measles cysts, wq 2219
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, IR 1681
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1773-6
Economic management, 1773
Education-
Post-primary school site-Christchurch, wq
1829
Electricity-
Christchurch-power pylons, wq 1835
Forests-
Raupunga-Kotemaori forestry project, wq
2222
Health centre-Lyttelton, wq 1829
Justice-electoral rolls, wq 1836
Labour-
Factory workers, Southland, wq 2233
Ocean Beach company-dispute, wg 1841
Overseas trade-
Deficit-Government record, 1774
Import barriers to primary products, wq 1823
Railways-level crossing protection, wq 2218
Regional Development-
Manufacturing closures-Southland, wq 2226
Programme-restrictions, wq 2228
Science and Technology-
National Research Advisory Council report,
wg 1821
Vietnam veterans-rehabilitation loans, wq 1832
Works and Development—
North Canterbury Catchment Board-Akaroa
and Lyttelton, wq 1836
BATCHELOR, Mrs M. D., M.P.-
Appropriation Bill—
Foreign Affairs, e, 2336
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1712-15, 1749
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2366
Consumer price index, 1713,4
Economy-cost of living affecting the family,
1715, 1749
Education-
Teachers-marriage allowance for females, q,
1752
Health-
Child mortality rating, 1713
School children-conditions and hygiene,
1714
Inland Revenue-
Tax refunds for families, 1713, 1749, 1761
Tax structure, 1713
Justice Social Security appeal authority, wq
2236
Labour-
Employment of women made redundant in
Christchurch, wq 1844
Factory workers, Canterbury, wq 2233
Stoppages at work, 1714
Unemployment-Labour Department survey,
9, 1616
Railways-transport efficiency, wq 1819


## p. iii (#831) ############################################

SESSION III, 1977
BATCHELOR, Mrs M. D., M.P.-continued
Regional Development-
Manufacturing
2222
Social Welfare-
closures Canterbury, wq
Assistance for elderly former psychiatric
patients, q, 1963
Domestic purposes benefit review committee
report, q, 1754
Tourism-
Chateau Commodore and THC, q, 1996
Trade and Industry—
Removal of subsidies, 1712
Woollen mill, Ashburton, q, 1672
BELL, Mr R. L., M.P.—
Agriculture-
Livestock incentive
scheme-stock unit
increase, reduction in minimum qualifying
numbers, 1800
Sheep returns-statistics for East Coast, q,
1911
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1798-1801, 1884
Housing-
Rural employees, provision in Budget, 1884
State house tenancy scheme, q, 1667
State rental houses, Gisborne-rent arrears, 9,
1673
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 1885
Inland Revenue-
Estate and gift duty receipts, 9, 1752
Tax structure, 1799
National superannuation-comparisons with
universal superannuation and New Zealand
superannuation, 1799
Post Office-
Telephone semi-automatic exchange, Rua-
toria, q, 1812
Regional Development-
Mortgage advances, wq 2235
Suspensory loans, East Coast, 9, 1670
Rural Banking and Finance Corporation-
Loans-interest rates and concessions, 1800
BILLS
Agricultural Workers, IR 1674; div, 1682
Appropriation Bill—
Audit, e, 2322
Foreign Affairs, e, 2327
Legislative, e, 2321
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, e,
2325
Prime Minister's Department, e, 2322
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1588, 1641,96, 1749,61, 1884, 1926,65,98,
2066,90, 2151,66, 2282
Government explanation, 1936
Opposition viewpoint, 1932
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering), tabled
1727; div, 1738
Bay of Plenty Harbour Board Empowering, IR
1925
Carriage of Goods, IR 2127
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1582, 1640, 1746; div,
1749
Civil List Amendment, 3R 2283
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2357
Contractual Mistakes, tabled 1743; div, 1746
Customs Orders Confirmation, IR 2351
BILLS-continued
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2139
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), IR 2339
Government Life Insurance Amendment, 3R
2283
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2288
Income Tax Amendment, 1R 2346
Land Tax (Annual), IR 2347
Legislature Amendment, 3R 2283
Local Government Amendment (No. 2), IR 2309
Marlborough County Council Reserves Fund
Empowering, 1R 2090
Ministry of Energy, 1R 1562; div, 1573
Moneylenders Amendment, 1R 1685; div, 1696
National Housing Commission Amendment, 3R
2283
New Zealand Planning, IR 2355
Noxious Animals, IR 2351
Potato Growing Industry, IR 1554
Private Savings Banks Amendment, IR 1717; 2R
2288
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust, IR
1917
Reserves, tabled 1741
Rodney County Council (Gulf Harbour) Vesting
and Empowering, 3R 1926
Securities Transfer, 3R 2283
Seddon Shield Districts Trotting Jackpot
Empowering, 3R 1613
Selwyn Plantation Board Amendment, IR 1726
Southland Harbour Board Reclamation and
Empowering, 3R 1926
Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone,
tabled 1739
Trustee Amendment, 3R 2283
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment, IR 1716; 2R
2285
University Acts Amendment, IR 1683
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1625
Wills Amendment, IR 1916
BIRCH, Mr W. F., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1708-12
Energy Resources-
Coal production, 1711
Imported fuels-cost, 1709
Incentives to encourage use of natural gas,
1710
Local hydro schemes, 1710
New ministry merging three energy portfolios,
1710
Health-
Medical payments to general practitioners, q,
1994
Open-heart surgery-cost, q, 1997
OECD assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1708
Violent demonstrations, m, 2049
BLANCHFIELD, Mr P., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Foreign Affairs, e, 2336
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2103-5
Seddon Shield Districts Trotting Jackpot
Empowering, 3R 1613


## p. iv (#832) #############################################

iv
INDEX
BLANCHFIELD, Mr P, M.P.-continued
Energy Resources-
Coal imports from Australia, q, 1623
Coal usage, 2104
Health-acupuncture, wq 2235
Housing Corporation loans-Greymouth, wq
1820
Mines-
Coal processing plant for Westport, q, 2082
Racing and trotting-broadcast commentaries,
wq 2235
Regional Development-
Assistance-West Coast, wq 1821
BOLGER, Hon. J. B., M.P. (Minister of Fisheries,
Associate Minister of Agriculture)——
Bills-
Potato Growing Industry, IR 1554,6,60,1
BRILL, Mr B. E., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2328
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1654-58
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2147
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2288-92
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1627-30
Community health centres, 1654
Housing-
Corporation loans-exemptions and restric-
tions, 1657
Loans-
First and second mortgages, 1658
Private mortgage market, 1658
Inland Revenue-
Tax refunds for families, 1656
Tax structure, 1655,71
World Vision-tax exemption revenue loss, wq
2229
Justice-
Mortgagee sales, q, 1619
Wellington, q, 1995
National superannuation, 1656
Statistics, q, 2217
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1655,7
Railcars-increase in service, 1655
BROADCASTING—
Broadcasting of midweek races-survey, q, 1811
TVI-financial situation, wq 1842
Television programmes-
Overlapping, 9, 1962
.TV2-coverage, wq 1830
Tongan earthquake-Radio New Zealand
communication service, wq 1814
CHRISTIE, Mr G., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2011-15
Building industry-
Developments after economic cutbacks, 2014
Customs-
Machinery tax on contracting equipment, q,
2044
Education-
Hawke's Bay Education Board, q, 1722
Hawke's Bay schools—absenteeism, q, 1724
CHRISTIE, Mr G., M.P.-continued
Health-
Hawke's Bay Hospital Board-waiting list, 9,
1996
Housing-
Corporation loans-interest rates, 2014
Police
Developments and causes of shortages on
police staff, 2013
Numbers, q, 2163
Police to population ratio, q, 2215
Regional Development-
Assistance-East Coast, wq 1832
Tax-
Deductions in worker profit-sharing scheme,
2012
Refunds for families, 2012
Transport-
Blue Streak railcar-developments arising from
stopping service, 2011
CIVIL AVIATION—
Air services-Los Angeles to London, q, 1959
Auckland International Airport-rescue
services, 9, 2217
Chateau Commodore and Air New Zealand, q,
1963
Christchurch Airport, q, 2211
-
support as one of high standard, 1948
International airports-full-time nurses, q, 1668
International flights to Auckland
Christchurch,
1993
9,
and
NAC and Air New Zealand co-operation, wq
1819
COLMAN, Hon. F. M., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2335
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1971-4
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2146
Ministry of Energy, IR 1562,72
Electricity-
Broadlands power station-progress, wq 1830
Energy Resources-
Energy conservation policy, 9, 1616
Energy output costs, wq 2226
Energy prices, wq 1838
Imported fuel-comparison with indigenous
resources, 1973
Masterton Gas Company, q, 1575
Oil exploration, 1974
Percentage costs, wq 1820
Small hydro schemes-sites, wq 2232
Wood-based liquid-fuel industry, wq 1837
Finance-
Petroleum energy tax, q, 2315
Migration loss, m, 2055
Mines-
Coal deposits, Huntly-testing of private land,
9, 1619
Huntly coal-Government control, wq 1834
Huntly-development of underground coal
mines, wq 1840
Petroleum exploration licences, Taranaki, q,
1620
Tax-
Evasion, 1972
Structure, 1971


## p. v (#833) ##############################################

SESSION III, 1977
V
COLMAN, Hon. F. M., M.P.-continued
Works and Development—
Geothermal energy development, wq 1833
Wainuiomata hill-Java tunnelling machine,
wg 1827
Wainuiomata
1827,32
hill road-upgrading, wq
COMBER, Mr K. M. M.P. (Parliamentary Under-
Secretary to Minister of Internal Affairs, Local
Government, Recreation and Sport, Civil Defence,
and for the Arts)—
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2333
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1967-71
Local Government Amendment (No. 2), IR
2312
Council for Maori and Polynesian arts, 1967
Education-
Community colleges, 1967
National superannuation, m, 2276
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1968
Tax structure, 1968,71
CONNELLY, Hon. M. A., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1611-12, 1641-4
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2144
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), IR 2343
New Zealand Planning, IR 2357
Broadcasting-
Broadcasting of midweek races-survey, q,
1811
Finance-
Government expenditure, 1641
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1642
Electors-proof of identity, q, 1807
Justice-
National Roads Board-
Government grant, 1611
Police-
Offences against the person, wq 1833
Police offences statistics-increase, wq 1829
-
- June quarter, wq 1833
Social Welfare-
Disabled young persons-research into needs,
wq 1823
Foster care children, wq 1832
Court appearances, wq 1833
Foster care study, q, 1576
Marriage counselling for domestic purposes
benefit applicants, wq 1823
National superannuation, 1643
Concessions, q, 2135,7
Television concession, q, 2321
Services provided by voluntary organisations,
9, 2043
Statistics-
Beer and cigarette tax estimates, wq 1818
Tax-
Refunds for families, 1642
Structure, 1612,42
Unemployment, m, 2064
Works and Development—
Town and country planning legislation, q,
2131
COOPER, Mr W. E., M.P.-
Agriculture-
Apples-export prices, q, 1617
Bills-
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2369
Education-
Otago Education Board-transport costs, 9,
1914
Social Welfare-
Birth statistics, q, 2160
Works and Development-
Clutha development, q, 2159
Irrigation schemes, q, 1754
Rural water supply schemes, q, 1915
COUCH, Mr M. B. R., M.P.-
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, IR 1679
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1949-53
Education-
Makora College-new gymnasium, wq 1844
Farm employee accommodation, 1950
Labour-
Unemployed-special workers for tree plant-
ing, q, 1573
Lands-
Farm settlement blocks, Wairarapa, 9, 1576
National superannuation, 1950
Regional Development-
Wairarapa incentive payments, 1951
Road transport haulage extension of 40-mile
limit, 1951
COURTNEY, Mr M. F., M.P.-
Appropriation Bill-
Prime Minister's Department, e, 2324
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2120-24
Potato Growing Industry, 1R 1556
Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone,
tabled 1740
Finance
Gross earnings-ratio to price increases, wq
1822
Inflation-proofed savings bonds, 9, 2213
Fisheries-
Fisheries research vessels-industrial dispute,
9, 1991
Fishing industry-development finance, wq
1844
Fish processing plant and equipment-
finance, q, 1667
Government Life
Insurance Office-
Securitibank collapse, q, 2216
Overseas Trade-
Primary produce exports, wq 1825
Regional Development-
Assistance-Marlborough, wq 1831
CUSTOMS
Drug law enforcement courses, q, 1807
Foreign fishing vessel entry tax, q, 1755
Import deposit scheme, q, 1963, 2040
Machinery tax on contracting equipment, q,
2044


## p. vi (#834) #############################################

vi
INDEX
DEFENCE-
Armed forces-salaries review, q, 1996
Armed services-personnel statistics, q, 2084
Russians landing in New Zealand, q, 2317
DEWE, Miss C. E., M.P.-
Agriculture-
Importance to economy, 1983
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1983-86
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2301-3
Civil Aviation-
Christchurch Airport, 9, 2211
Finance-
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 1986
Health centres, 1985
Labour-
Port levies by waterfront industry commission,
9, 2085
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1983
Taxation-
Changes, m, 2278
For community health, 1985
Refunds for families, 1985
Structure, 1984
Transport-
Seamen employed in New Zealand-registered
ships, q, 2088
DOUGLAS, Hon. R. O., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1604-8
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), IR 2344
Education-
Maintenance grant, wg 1840
Special education facilities, Auckland, wq 2220
Teachers-Clydemore, East Tamaki, and
Mayfield Primary schools, wq 1822
Finance-
Personal income distribution, wq 1820
Taxation changes, m, 2280
Government Life Insurance Office-
Investment board meetings, wq 2219
Housing-
Corporation loans-recommended restructur-
ing, 1605
First and second mortgages, 1604
Loans-refinancing mortgages, 1607
Mortgage finance-proposed restructuring,
1606
Petitions-
Free-calling telephone services-
Hawkins, G.W. and 5088 others, tabled pet,
1582
DOWNIE, Mr G. P. A., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1894-7
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2150
Conservation of energy, 1895
Finance-
Subsidies-removal, q, 1577
Health-
Medical services, 1896
Nursing graduates, q, 1993
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 1896
DOWNIE, Mr G. P. A., M.P.-continued
Nursing training programme transferred to tech-
nical institutes-Southland and the Waikato,
1896
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1894
Petitions-
Drugs-illegal importation—
Canon I.A. Clarke and 258 others-public
inquiry into the financing and importa-
tion of illicit drugs, pet, 1759,61
Post Office
Telephone exchange, Howick, q, 2047
Railways-
Removal of subsidies, wq 1843
Social Welfare-
Domestic purposes
committee-
benefit review
Recommendation 24, q, 2047
Recommendation 25, q, 1991
Recommendation 28, 9, 2041
National superannuation—cost, wq 1842
DRAYTON, Squadron Leader, R. P. B., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2332
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2186-9
Potato Growing Industry, 1R 1555
Education-
School textbooks scrutiny, q, 2132
Justice-
Penal reform proposals, 2188
EDUCATION-
Administration-
Auckland Education Board-
Attendance officers, wq 1837
Transport costs, wq 1839
Early childhood director, wq 1845
Hawke's Bay Education Board, q, 1722
Otago Education Board-transport costs, q,
1914
School committees-general expenses grant,
wq 2220
Women on statutory bodies, wq 2224
Buildings-
Auckland-
Replacement of substandard education
buildings, wq 1840
Security alarms for schools, wq 1840
Maintenance grant, wq 1840
Makora College-new gymnasium, wq 1844
Massey and Ranui primary schools, 9, 1908
Melville High School-home science block, wq
2220
Post-primary school site-Christchurch, wq
1829
Secondary school-Pages Road, Timaru, wq
1844
Waitemata electorate-building programme,
1763
Wanganui Education Board-administrative
grant, q, 1577
Finance-
Art students' fees, wq 1818
Cost of transporting pupils, 9, 2131
Examination fees increase, wq 2221
Industry training boards-financing, wq 2230
Post-primary schools—general expenses grant,
9, 1719


## p. vii (#835) ############################################

SESSION III, 1977
vii
EDUCATION-continued
Finance-continued
Pre-school education-additional funds, wq
2225
Rural school children-bursaries, 1778
School bus operators, wq 2220
School certificate examination fees, wq 1841
Secondary school boards-overdrafts, wq 2230
Standard tertiary bursaries, q, 1908
Student bursaries, q, 1813
Policy-
Comparisons of educational philosophy with
Polynesian system, 1798
Educational philosophy-changes apparent,
1797
Expanding facilities needed for growing south
Auckland area, 1794
Government priorities, 1779
Hutt Valley alternative school—special class,
9, 2085
Increasing numbers without standard educa-
tion, 1796
Intermediate schools, Auckland, wq 2220
School textbooks scrutiny, q, 2132
Special education facilities, Auckland, wq 2220
Student graduates-ethnic analysis, wq 2229
Teachers-
Bairds Primary School-teacher-aid hours, wq
1842
Clydemore, East Tamaki, and Mayfield Prim-
ary schools, wq 1822
Kindergarten teachers-salary increase, wq
2224
Maori language teachers, q, 1579
Marriage allowance for females, q, 1752
Massey University-staffing, wq 2230
Palmerston North Teachers College-appoint-
ments, q, 2089
Salaries negotiations, q, 2216
Secondary school, Mangere proposed new
school, 1982
Secondary schools-technical teachers, wq
1834
Secondary school teachers-recruitment, q,
1724
Shortage of relieving teachers, q, 1961
Training quota, wq 1839
Waiheke area school-staffing, wq 2222
Tertiary-
Community colleges, 1966; q, 2081
Northland Community College, q, 2164
Truancy, q, 1622
Hawke's Bay schools, q, 1724
ELECTRICITY—
Broadlands power station-progress, wq 1830
Christchurch-power pylons, wq 1835
Coal imports from Australia, q, 1623
Electricity and gas users-payments of accounts,
9, 1719
Waiau Pa site-electric power generation, wq
2235
Waitemata Electric Power Board-consumer
difficulties, q, 1912
ELLIOTT, Mr J. G., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1787-91
Education-
Northland Community College, q, 2164
ELLIOTT, Mr J. G., M.P.-continued
Finance-
Allowances for fishing vessels, 1789
Economic management, 1788
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1788
Fisheries-
Fishing industry expansion-200-mile limit,
1790
Housing-
State rental houses-Whangarei city, 9, 2163
Labour-
Employment of persons previously on special
assistance, q, 1990
Industrial stoppages-statistics, 9, 2081
Railways-
Railway employees, Whangarei City, q, 2212
Regional Development-
Grants for manufacturing and processing
projects in high priority regions, 1789
Tourism-
Tourist industry expansion, 1790
Valuation-
Farm prices, Whangarei County, 9, 2045
ELWORTHY, Mr J. H., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2183-6
Education-
Cost of transporting pupils, 9, 2131
Health-
Northland Hospital Board-finance for
development, q 2048
Overseas Trade-
Beef exports to America-ANZUS talks, q,
2162
Rural Banking and Finance Corporation-
Farmers-finance for new development, q,
2318
ENERGY RESOURCES
Coal-
-and geothermal research, 1602,9
Production, 1711
Supply within our country, 1765
Usage, 2104
Conservation, 1895
Energy conservation policy, q, 1616
Insulation in new houses-building permits
issued under scheme, 1704
Taxation incentives for industrial
commercial energy conservation, 1703
Finance-
Energy output costs, wq 2226
Energy prices, wq 1838
Percentage costs, wq 1820
Gas-
LPG plant in Taranaki, 9, 1809
Masterton Gas Company, 9, 1575
Maui gas-target date, wq 1824
and
Transfer of energy in homes to natural gas,
1975
Hydro-
Central Otago-proposed hydro development,
1769
Development, 1602,9
Local hydro schemes, 1703
Small hydro schemes-sites, wq 2232
Oil-
Drilling programme for on-shore gas and
petroleum resources, 1702


## p. viii (#836) ###########################################

viii
INDEX
ENERGY RESOURCES-continued
Oil-continued
Exploration, 1594, 1602,9, 1703, 1974
Imported fuel-comparison with indigenous
resources, 1973
Imported fuels-cost, 1709
Imports by OECD countries, q, 1669
On-shore oil prospecting licences, 9, 2212
Petroleum imports-cost, 1665, 1701
World supply, 1765
Policy-
Energy pricing policy, 1701
Incentives to encourage use of natural gas,
1704,10
Ministry of Energy Bill-
Provides for the establishment of one
department of State merging three energy
portfolios, 1562
New ministry merging three energy portfolios,
1710
Research programme, 1702,05, 1929
Wind generation, wg 1834
Wood-based liquid-fuel industry, wq 1837
ENVIRONMENT-
Commission for the Environment legislation, q,
2214
Environmental procedures-urgent overhaul, 4,
2319
Maruia Declaration petition, q, 1624
Open space-sufficient for New Zealanders-see
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust
Bill, 1917
FALLOON, Mr J. H., M.P.—
Agriculture
Brucellosis and Tb eradication schemes-staff
numbers, q, 1579
Economic and production statistics, q, 2318
Economic measures provided to help new
farmers starting out, 2038
Exports-agricultural and forestry, 2038
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2034-8
Finance-
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 2038
Improvement in external trade, m, 2057
Labour-
Peter Pan ice cream factory-displaced work
force, q 2086
Overseas Trade-
Manufactured exports using indigenous raw
materials, q, 1812
Post Office-
Telephone exchanges at Waipawa, Wai-
pukurau and Porangahau, q, 1725
Prime Minister-overseas trips to conferences, as
representative, 2037
State Services-
Employment levels, q, 1909
Public sector-employment levels, wq 2229
Tax-
Refunds for families, 2036
Structure, 2036
FAULKNER, Hon. A. J., M.P.—
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, 1R 1675
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2196-2202
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2307-8
FAULKNER, Hon. A. J., M.P.—continued
Bills-continued
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust,
1R 1919
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1630-2
Finance-
Economic trends, 2200
Unemployment, m, 2061
Violent demonstrations, m, 2050
FENTON, Mr W. R., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2179-83
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1632-3
State Insurance Office-
Prosecutions for theft, q, 1911
FINANCE-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report before
budget speech in the House, 2021,26
Alleged leakage of budget taxing proposals, 1878
Car pooling schemes, q, 1765
Christchurch-Lyttelton Road Tunnel Author-
ity-revenues, q, 1718
Consumer price index, 1713,4
Economic management, 1601,59, 1771,3,88
Economic policy-Opposition view, 1786
Export earnings-importance to economy, 2009
Government expenditure, 1641,51
Gross earnings-ratio to price increases, wq 1822
IMF assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598
Increasing gap between wealthy and poor
nations, 1943
Inflation, 1593, 1698
Inflation-proofed bonds, 1664; q, 2161, 2213
Inflation-proofed savings scheme, 1896, 1926,86,
2038
Interest rate increase, 1698
Interest rates, 1592
Living costs-economy affecting the family,
1715,49,66, 1987
New Zealand superannuation scheme-refunds,
9, 2316
Northland-standard of living, 1660
OECD assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598, 1663, 1708
report on New Zealand economy, 1706
Overseas deficit-Government record, 1599,
1608,42,45,55,57,63,1766,74,76,85, 95,1900,
28,30,53,68,83,2028
Overseas exchange from visitors, 9, 1619
Personal income distribution, wq 1820
Petroleum energy tax, q, 2315
Ridge Road, Paremoremo-rubbish tip, q, 1962
Share market, 1698
Subsidies-removal, q, 1577
Tax on clothes dryers, 1785
FINLAY, Hon. Dr A. M., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Legislative, e, 2321
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2333
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1696-1700
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1747


## p. ix (#837) #############################################

SESSION III, 1977
ix
FINLAY, Hon. Dr A. M., M.P.-continued
Bills-continued
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, 1R
2363
Contractual Mistakes, tabled 1744
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), IR 2344
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2392-5
Legislature Amendment, 2R 2283
Local Government Amendment Bill (No. 2),
IR 2310,11
Potato Growing Industry, IR 1557
Civil Aviation-
Auckland
International
services, q, 2217
Electricity-
Airport-rescue
Waiau Pa site-electric power generation, wq
2235
Finance-
Alleged leakage of Budget taxing proposals,
1879
Car pooling schemes, q, 1756
Inflation, 1698
Interest rate increase, 1698
Share market, 1698
Foreign Affairs-
EIB-training of intelligence officers, q, 1670
Maputo Declaration-New Zealand stance,
wg 1817
Prime Minister's speech, wq 1817
- recruitment of mercenaries, wq 1835
Inland Revenue Department-
World Vision-tax exemption for contribu-
tions, wq 2227
Justice-
Bookmaking, q, 1914
Minister of Police-statement to National
Party Conference, q, 1726
Legislative
Hansard printing delays, 2321
Petitions-
Drugs-illegal importation-
Canon I.A. Clarke, and 258 others, pet, 1759
Police-
Trespass Act, Section 9(2)-police appear-
ances, q, 2316
Prime Minister-
Motor cycle gangs and overstayers, q, 1751
Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
State Services-
Air traffic controllers, Auckland, q, 2159
Trade and Industry-
Commerce Act-criteria for capital cost of
production, q, 1990
Transport industry-restructuring, 1699
FISHERIES-
Allowances for fishing vessels, 1789, 2039
Development finance, wq 1844
Economic 200-mile zone, 1596, 1602, 1790
Fisheries research vessels-industrial dispute, 9,
1991
Fishing vessel ownership savings scheme, 1696,
1927, 1956, 2010
Fish processing plant and equipment-finance,
9, 1667
Importing larger fishing vessels--duty free with
conditions, 1955, 2010
Industry-expansion and development, 1954
Mussel farming, 1954
FOREIGN AFFAIRS-
ASEAN countries-aid, q, 2160
EIB-training of intelligence officers, 9, 1670
Estimates, e, 2327
French Polynesian
policy, q, 2084
Maputo Declaration-
territories-Government
New Zealand stance, wq 1817
Prime Minister's speech, wq 1817
Recruitment of mercenaries, wq 1835
Maputo International Conference, wq 1839
Neutron bomb-objection by New Zealand, wq
1836
Nuclear bomb tests-Mururoa, wq 1579, 1835
Radio single sideband equipment for Fiji, q, 1721
SEATO distribution of assets, wq 1839
Soccer World Cup Congress-"Two Chinas", q,
1671
South Africa-rugby players, 9, 2158
US Naval Observatory-use, wq 2224
FORESTS
Forestry encouragement grant scheme, 1930
Indigenous timber price increase, q, 1671
Raupunga-Kotemaori forestry project, wq 2222
Sawlog production, wq 2227
Sawmills-employment, wq 2227
FRASER, Hon. W. A., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2175-9
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment, 2R 2287
Housing-
Government record, 2178
FREER, Hon. W. W., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2327
Prime Minister's Department, e, 2324
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2094-7
Ministry of Energy, IR 1565
Energy Resources—
Maui gas-target date, wq 1824
Finance-
Tax structure, 2095
Foreign Affairs-
ASEAN countries-aid,
9, 2160
French Polynesian territories-Government
policy, 9, 2084
Maputo International Conference, wq 1839
SEATO distribution of assets, wq 1839
South Africa-rugby players, 9, 2158
US Naval Observatory-use, wq 2224
Health-
Hospitals-funds for equipment, q, 2088
Overseas Trade-
Trade commission, Bangkok-criticism, wq
1824
Regional Development-
Assistance-Northland, wq 1826
Social Welfare-
War service pensions, wq 1824
Student demonstration, 1907
Trade and Industry-
Factories-assistance with financial problems,
9, 1808
Manufacturers problems and NAFTA, 2097
Professional charges-hourly rate proposal, wq
2226


## p. x (#838) ##############################################

X
INDEX
FREER, Hon. W. W., M.P.-continued
War pensions-
War pensioners continuation of fringe
benefits, wq 1831
FRIEDLANDER, Mr A. P. D., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2007-11
Energy Resources-
LPG plant in Taranaki, q, 1809
Export earnings-importance to economy, 2009
Fishing industry-
Fishing vessel ownership savings scheme, 2010
Importing fishing vessels-duty free with
conditions, 2010
Inland Revenue-
Totalisators-statistics, q, 1810
National superannuation-in relation to average
weekly wage, 2007
Railways-Blue Streak railcar-developments
arising from stopping service, 2008
Tax refunds for families, 2011
Trade and Industry-
Imports raw materials and manufacturing
components, q, 1616
GAIR, Hon. G. F., M.P. (Minister of Energy
Resources, Minister of Electricity, Minister of
Mines, Minister of National Development, Minister
of Regional Development)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1700-4
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2362
Ministry of Energy, IR 1562,4,5,6,71
New Zealand Planning, IR 2355-7,8
Energy Resources-
Companies-control of resources and supply,
1701,3
Drilling programme for on-shore gas and
petroleum resources, 1702
Energy pricing policy, 1701
Incentives to encourage use of natural gas,
1704
Insulation in new houses-building permits
issued under scheme, 1704
Local hydro schemes, 1703
Petroleum imports-cost, 1701
Oil exploration, 1703
Research programme, 1702
Taxation incentives for
industrial
and
commercial energy conservation, 1703
Overseas trade deficit, 1700
GANDAR, Hon. L. W., M.P. (Minister of Educa-
tion, Minister of Science and Technology)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill—Financial statement, 2R
1776-80
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2360
University Acts Amendment, IR 1683,4,5
Education-.
Government priorities, 1779
Rural school children-bursaries, 1778
Overseas trade deficit, 1776
Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
GILL, Hon. T. F., C.B.E., D.S.O., M.P. (Minister
of Health, Minister of Immigration)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1889-93
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2364
Health-
Children-provision in Budget for family
health, 1893
Infant mortality rate, 1893
Nursing training programme transferred to
technical institutes-Southland and the
Waikato, 1892
Immigration-
Committee to study population under the
new planning council, 1890
New Zealanders returning home, 1892
New Zealanders travelling overseas, 1891
Policy, 1891
Migration loss, m, 2054
Petitions-
Drugs-illegal importation-
Canon I.A. Clarke and 258 others, pet, 1760
GORDON, Hon. J. B., M.P. (Minister of Labour,
Minister of State Services)—
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, 1R 1674,7,8
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2097-2102
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1638-9
Employment-
Private sector subsidy scheme, 2101
Tana Mahi Trust-work scheme, 2101
Water and soil projects, 2099
GOVERNMENT
OFFICE-
LIFE
INSURANCE
Investment board meetings, wq 2219
Securitibank collapse, q, 2216
GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE—
Hansard delay in publication, q, 1621
Parliamentary papers-publication, wq 1837
HARRISON, Mr J. R., M.P.—
Agriculture-
Economic measures provided to help new
farmers starting out, 2038
Freezing industry-depreciation allowances
on new and altered buildings, 2039
Noxious plants control scheme, 2039
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2039,66
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1727,38
Fisheries-
Allowances for fishing vessels built in New
Zealand, 2039
Social Welfare-
Social problems-Napier, 2067
Transport-
Port of Napier-development, 2066


## p. xi (#839) #############################################

SESSION III, 1977
xi
HEALTH-
Acupuncture, wq 2235
Children-
Child mortality rating, 1713
Condition and hygiene in schools, 1653, 1714
Health standards, 1945
Infant mortality rate, 1893
Provision in Budget for family health, 1893
Increase in mental illness amongst Maori popu-
lation, 1661
Hospitals-
Funds for equipment, q, 2088
Hawke's Bay Hospital Board—waiting list, 9,
1996
Karitane hospitals, q, 2089
Middlemore Hospital—extramural services, q,
2210
Neurosurgical unit, Dunedin, q, 2315
Northland Hospital Board-finance for
development, 2R 2048
Nursing graduates, q, 1993
Nursing training programme transferred to
Southland and
technical institutes
Waikato, 1892,6
-
South Auckland-proposed new hospitals,
east Tamaki and Papakura, 1793
Waitakere Hospital-stage 3, 1763; g, 2044
Wellington Hospital Board-acquisition of
residential properties, q, 1681
Young physically disabled in geriatric wards, 9,
1617
Services-
Blood tests-costs, q, 2046
Centres, 1985
Chiropody benefit, q, 1914
Community health centres, 1653,4
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion
commission, wq 2221
Diabetics requiring insulin treatment, q, 2083
Family health counselling centres, wq 1817
Health centres-
Lyttelton, wq 1829
Manukau City, q, 2165, 2217
Upper Hutt, wq 1842
Health Department-staff changes at Wiri
office, q, 1913
Health pilot scheme, Northland, wq 2233
Health services advisory committee, q, 2317
Heroin disposal, wq 1844
Medical payments to general practitioners, 9,
1994
Medical services, 1896
Open-heart surgery-cost, q, 1997
Planning and availability, 1651
South Auckland-proposed new health centre,
Manukau City, 1793
HIGHET, Hon. D. A., M.P. (Minister of Internal
Affairs, Minister of Local Government, Minister of
Recreation and Sport, Minister of Civil Defence,
Minister for the Arts)
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2166-70
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1748
Local Government Amendment (No. 2), 1R
2309,10,12,13
Lotteries-use of funds, 2170
HOLLAND, Hon. E. S. F., M.P. (Minister of
Housing, Minister in Charge of the Public Trust
Office)-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1900-03
National Housing Commission Amendment,
3R 2283
Housing-
Corporation loans-low income supplement,
1902
Home ownership savings scheme, 1901
Loans-interest rates, 1902
Policy, 1902
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1900
HOUSING-
Building permits issued under home insulation
scheme, 1704
Corporation-
Arrears in rent, 1981
Loans-
Exemptions and restrictions, 1657
- Greymouth, wq 1820
Interest rates, 1761,92, 2014.
Low income supplement, 1902
- Recommended restructuring, 1605,6
Government record, 2178
Home ownership savings scheme, 1901
Hotel accommodation-tavern levy fund, q, 1722
House numbers-Morrinsville, 1665
Loans-
First and second mortgages, 1604
Interest rates, 1768, 1902
Private mortgage interest rates, 1591
Private mortgage market, 1658, 1935
Refinancing mortgages, 1607,13,51
Maori housing, 1937
Policy, 1902
Post Office home ownership accounts, q, 1758
Prices, 1608
Rural employees-provision in Budget, 1884
State house tenancy scheme, q, 1667
State rental houses-
Gisborne-rent arrears, q, 1673
Whangarei city, q, 2163
Tenancies-rent outstanding, 4, 1811
Worldwide competition to design homes in Te
Atatu, 1764
HUNT, Mr J. L., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2328
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1649-54
Potato Growing Industry, 1R 1556,8,9
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1636
Broadcasting-
Television programmes overlapping, 9, 1962
Tongan earthquake-Radio New Zealand
communication service, wq 1814
Education-
Auckland-replacement
of substandard
education buildings, wq 1840
Auckland-security alarms for schools, wq
1840
Intermediate schools, Auckland, wq 2220
School certificate examination fees, wq 1841


## p. xii (#840) ############################################

xii
INDEX
HUNT, Mr J. L., M.P.—continued
Electricity-
Electricity and gas
accounts, q, 1719
users-payment
of
Waitemata Electric Power Board-consumer
difficulties, q, 1912
Finance-
Government expenditure, 1651
Tax structure, 1650
Foreign Affairs-
Neutron bomb-objection by New Zealand,
wq 1836
Health-
School children-
Conditions and hygiene, 1653
Services-community health centres, 1653
- planning and availability, 1651
Young physically disabled in geriatric wards,
9, 1617
-
Housing-
Refinancing mortgages-forced sales, 1613,50
Internal Affairs-
Film Trade Board-projectionists' conditions,
wq 2226
Ministerial
private
employed, 9, 1581
Justice-
secretaries-women
Electoral rolls-place and street index, wq
2232
Labour-
Factory workers, Wairarapa, wq 2232
Petitions-
Drugs-illegal importation-
Canon I.A. Clarke and 258 others, pet, 1760
Post Office-
Greytown manual telephone
closure-staff lay-offs, wq 1814
Regional Development-
Assistance-King Country, wq 1824
exchange
Manufacturing closures-Wairarapa, wq 2225
Transport-
Urban transport-Government assistance, wq
1818
Works and Development-
National Roads Board-finance, q, 2319
IMMIGRATION-
Assisted passages, wq 1843
Committee to study population under the new
planning council, 1890
Immigrants from South Africa and Japan, q,
1909
Inflow of unskilled workers, 1663
New Zealanders returning home, 1892
New Zealanders travelling overseas, 1891,7
Officers-overseas postings, wq 2228
Outflow of New Zealanders, 1596, 1660,3
Policy, 1891
INLAND REVENUE-
Estate and gift duty receipts, q, 1752
Income tax levels, 2107
Income tax rate on incomes under 2,000, q, 2320
Inflation-proof bonds-tax saving incentive,
1664
Tax deductions in worker profit-sharing scheme,
2012
Tax evasion, 1972
Tax refunds for families, 1590, 1600,11,42,56,
1713,49,67,92, 1985, 2011,12,27,33,36
Tax structure, 1600, 12,42,55,57,59, 1713,67,99,
1886, 1968,84, 2027,36,93,95
INLAND REVENUE-continued
Totalisators-statistics, q, 1810
World Vision-tax exemption for contributions,
wq 2227
INTERNAL AFFAIRS-
Film Trade Board-projectionists' conditions,
wq 2226
Lotteries-use of funds, 2170
Ministerial private secretaries—women
ployed, q, 1581
em-
Nash papers in national archives, q, 2165
National Art Gallery-staffing, wq 2224
New Zealand Literary Fund-grants, wq 2231
Racing and trotting-broadcast commentaries,
wq 2235
ISBEY, Mr E. E., M.P.-
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2329
Arts-
Difficulties during economic climate, 1899
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, IR 1676
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1897-1900
Local Government Amendment (No. 2), IR
2310
Noxious Animals, IR 2354
Foreign Affairs-
Soccer World Cup Congress-"Two Chinas",
9, 1671
International airports-full-time nurses, q, 1668
National Art Gallery-staffing, wq 2224
New Zealanders travelling overseas, 1897
Non-container ports-trade, q, 2165
Road transport haulage-extension of 40-mile
limit, 1900
JONES, Mr D. M. J., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1749,61
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2305-7
Defence-
Armed forces-salaries review, q, 1996
Russians landing in New Zealand, q, 2317
Education-
Massey and Ranui primary schools, 9, 1908
Student bursaries, q, 1813
Waitemata schools-building programme,
1763
Energy Resources-
Coal-supply within our country, 1765
Oil-world supply, 1765
Supply for growing demand, 1765
Ethics in society-slide in standards, 1762
Finance-
Ridge Road, Paremoremo-rubbish tip, q,
1962
Health-
Waitakere Hospital-stage 2, 1763; q, 2044
Housing-
State house tenancies-rent outstanding, q,
1811
Worldwide competition to design homes in Te
Atatu, 1764
Justice-
Custody orders-fathers' rights, q, 1807
Labour-
Auckland Museum of Transport
Technology-relief workers, q, 1910
and


## p. xiii (#841) ###########################################

SESSION III, 1977
xiii
JONES, Mr D. M. J., M.P.—continued
Labour-continued
Pentachlorophenyl poisoning-accident com-
pensation claim, q, 1756
Maori Affairs-
Department-prosecutions for theft, q, 1961
Post Office-
National superannuation-financing, q, 2215
Telephone exchange, Massey, 9, 2161
Railways-
Auckland-Waitakere line, q, 1751
Prosecutions for theft, q, 1757
Services expansion, Auckland, 1750,64
Social Welfare-
Massey and
Ranui-Social Development
Council report, q, 2213
Tax refunds for families, 1761
Transport-
Passenger transport and bus services, Auck-
land, 1750,63
Transport
Department-prosecutions
theft, q, 1914
JONES, Mr N. P. H., M.P.—
Bills-
for
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2202-4
Regional Development-Southland, 2203
JUSTICE-
Bookmaking, 9, 1914
Custody orders-fathers' rights, q, 1807
Electoral rolls-place and street index, wq 1836,
2232
Electors-proof of identity, q, 1807
Magistrate's Court, Papakura, q, 1575
Marriage guidance councils, q, 1915
Minister of Police-statement to National Party
Conference, 9, 1726
Mortgagee sales, q, 1619
Mortgagee sales, Wellington, 9, 1995
Penalties for lawbreakers, q, 1758
Prison population, wq 1816
Social Security appeal authority, wq 2236
KIRK, Mr N. J., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1944-8
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2139-41,50
Civil Aviation-
Air services-Los Angeles to London, q, 1959
Chateau Commodore and Air New Zealand, q,
1963
Christchurch Airport-support as one of high
standard, 1948
KIRK, Mr N. J., M.P.-continued
Personal statement-
Interjection concerning head of Prime Minis-
ter's Department, 2158
Tourism-
Australian visitors group tour costs, q, 1964
Tourist accommodation in Auckland and
Christchurch, q, 1914
Trade and Industry-
Miller's Ltd, Christchurch-sackings, q, 1757
Woollen mills at Mosgiel and Ashburton, q,
1753
Transport-
Coastal Trader-freight charges, q, 1809
Works and Development-
Chatham Islands air services, wq 1841
LABOUR-
Accident Compensation—
Commission report, q, 2134
Pentachlorophenyl poisoning, q, 1756
Employment-
Auckland Museum
of Transport
Technology-relief workers, q, 1910
Factory workers-
Canterbury, wq 2233
East Coast, wq 2233
Northland, wq 2234
Otago, wq 2234
Southland, wq 2233
Wairarapa, wq 2232
and
Persons previously on special assistance, 9,
1990
Peter Pan ice cream factory-displaced work
force, q, 2086
Private sector subsidy scheme, 2101
Special work scheme in private sector, m, 2065
Tana Mahi Trust-work scheme, 2101
Trainee chefs-travel allowances, wq 2230
Unemployed-special workers for tree plant-
ing, q, 1573
Unemployment-Labour Department survey,
9, 1616
Women made redundant in Christchurch, wq
1844
Industrial-
Mediators, 9, 2210
Ocean Beach company-dispute, wq 1841
Slaughtermen-seasonal pay statistics, q, 2314
Stoppages at work, 1714
Stoppages-statistics, q, 2081
Port levies by waterfront industry commission, q,
2085
Trade unions-
-in United States and Canada-penalties, 4,
2313
Voluntary unionism ballots, 9, 1666
International
flights to Auckland
Christchurch, q, 1993
Education-
and
LAMBERT, Mr B. S. G., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Industry training boards-financing, wq 2230
Finance-
Christchurch-Lyttelton Road Tunnel Autho-
rity-revenues, q, 1718
Inflation-proofed bonds, q, 2161
Health-
Children's health standards, 1945
Labour-
Trainee chefs-travel allowances, wq 2230
National superannuation, 1948
Foreign Affairs, e, 2336
LANDS
Farm settlement blocks, Wairarapa, q, 1576
Forestry-land purchases, wq 2227
Land use study, 1931
Little Barrier Island-extermination of wild cats,
9, 2042


## p. xiv (#842) ############################################

xiv
INDEX
LANGE, Mr D. R., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1977-82
Carriage of Goods, IR 2130
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2148
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2303-4
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1690-2
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order tabled 1633-4
Education-
Auckland Education Board-transport costs,
wq 1839
School bus operators, wq 2220
Secondary school Mangere proposed new
school, 1982
Gleneagles agreement, 1980
Housing Corporation-arrears in rent, 1981
National superannuation, m, 2277
Single-income rebate, 1980
Social Welfare-
Children's boards, q, 2045
De facto relationships-domestic purposes
benefit, q, 1992
Violent demonstrations, m, 2052
LAPWOOD, Hon. H. R., M.P.--
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2154
LATTER, Mr E. G., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Foreign Affairs, e, 2335
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1903-6, 1926-8
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2295-8
Marlborough County Council Reserves Fund
Empowering, 1R 2090
Fishing vessel ownership savings scheme, 1927
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 1926
Transport-
Changes by Government-Road Transport
Association view, 1905
Road transport haulage-extension of 40-mile
limit, 1905
Voluntary unionism ballots, q, 1666
LEGISLATIVE—
Estimates, e, 2321
Hansard printing delays, 2322
LITHGOW, Mr J. L., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1974-7
Energy Resources—
Gas-transfer of energy in homes to natural
gas, 1975
National superannuation, 1977
Road transport haulage-extension of 40-mile
limit, 1975
LOCAL GOVERNMENT-
Local Authorities-
Accounts, q, 2134
Funds for passenger
replacement, 1707
transport-capital
Hydro schemes in co-operation with Govern-
ment, 1703,10
LOCAL GOVERNMENT-continued
Local Authorities-continued
Waiheke County Council rates, q, 1721
Northland-standard of living, 1660
LUXTON, Mr J. F., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2333
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1662-5, 1696
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), IR 2343
Defence-
Armed services-personnel statistics, q, 2084
Farming-
Vendor finance scheme, 1665
Fishing vessel ownership savings scheme, 1696
Health-blood tests, cost, q, 2046
House numbers-Morrinsville, 1665
Inflation, 1663
Inflation-proof bonds, 1664
Inflow of unskilled workers, 1663
in
Livestock incentive scheme-reduction
minimum unit numbers, 1665
National superannuation, 1663; m, 2278
OECD acceptance of agricultural products, 1663
Outflow of New Zealanders, 1663
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1663
Petroleum imports-cost, 1665
Post Office-
Manual telephones, q, 2082
Telecommunications expenditure, 9, 2088
Telephone subscribers using party lines, 9,
2085
Railways-
Kaimai railway tunnel, q, 1721
Trade-
Consumer price index, 1663
Import price index, 1663
Works and Development-
Contracting work-economic restraint, wq
1845
MCCREADY, Hon. ALLAN, M.P. (Minister of
Defence, Minister of Police, Minister in Charge of
War Pensions, Minister in Charge of
Rehabilitation)-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2189-93
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2145
MacDONELL, Mr B. P., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
Foreign Affairs, e, 2331
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2109-13
Customs Orders Confirmation, IR 2351
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, 2R
2142
Customs-
Import deposit scheme, q, 1963, 2040
Labour-
Factory workers, Otago, wq 2234
Post Office-
Telephone waiting list-Dunedin, wq 1835
Railways-
Railway line upgrading, Otago, q, 2084


## p. xv (#843) #############################################

SESSION III, 1977
XV
MacDONELL, Mr B. P., M.P.-continued
Regional Development-
Manufacturing closure-Otago, wq 2223
Otago, wq 1826
Regional resources surveys, q, 1909
Southland, wq 1825
Suspensory loans, wq 2221
MacINTYRE, Hon. D., D.S.O., O.B.E., E.D.,
M.P. (Minister of Agriculture, Minister of Maori
Affairs, Minister in Charge of the Rural Banking
and Finance Corporation)—
Agriculture-
Farm employee accommodation, 1939
Livestock incentive scheme-reduction in
minimum unit numbers, 1939
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1936,37-40
Maori Affairs-
Health amongst Maori population, 1938
Housing, 1937
Land development, 1937
Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council-
Maori arts and culture committee, 1938
MCLACHLAN, Hon. C. C. A., M.P. (Minister of
Transport, Minister of Civil Aviation and
Meteorological Services, Minister of Railways)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1645-9
Selwyn Plantation Board Amendment, IR
1726
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1645
Railways-
Railcars-increase in service, 1648
Transport-
Industry-restructuring, 1647
Road limit-extension, 1647
Road-new tax system, 1648
Road-sales tax, vehicles-adjustments, 1649
Urban-replacing buses, 1647
McLAY, Mr J. K., M.P.—
Bills-
Carriage of Goods, IR 2129
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1582, 1748
Contractual Mistakes, tabled 1743,5
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1693
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1625-7, 1639
Taxation changes, m, 2281
MALCOLM, Mr A. G., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2074, 2090
Labour-
Industrial mediators, q, 2210
Trade unions in United States and
Canada-penalties, q, 2313
Unemployment, m, 2061
Prime Minister-
Role of public servants in Parliament, 2091
Tax structure, 2093
MAORI AFFAIRS
Council for Maori and Polynesian arts, 1967
Department-prosecutions for theft, q, 1961
MAORI AFFAIRS-continued
Health amongst Maori population, 1938
Housing, 1937,67
Land development, 1937
Maori land advisory committee and Maori land-
owners, q, 2215
Mental illness-increase amongst Maori popula-
tion, 1661
Queen Elizabeth II Arts Council-
Maori arts and culture committee, 1938
Staff-
Welfare and administration, 1661
Welfare of Maori people, 2033
MARSHALL, Mr C. R., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2337
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2002-07
University Acts Amendment, IR 1684
Broadcasting-
TV1-financial situation, wq 1842
Education-
Allowances in budget-viewpoint on Govern-
ment programme for pre-school and adult
education, 2005
Art students' fees, wq 1818
Community colleges, q, 2081
Early childhood director, wq 1845
Examination fees increase, wq 2221
Massey University-staffing, wq 2230
Melville High School-home science block, wq
2220
Palmerston North Teachers College-
appointments, q, .2089
Secondary school boards-overdrafts, wq 2230
Secondary schools-technical teachers, wq
1834
School committees-general expenses grant,
wq 2220
Shortage of relieving teachers, q, 1961
Standard tertiary bursaries, q, 1908
Student graduates-ethnic analysis, wq 2229
Teachers training quota, wq 1839
Wanganui Education Board-administrative
grant, q, 1577
Government Printing Office-
Hansard delay in publication, q, 1621
Health-
Health pilot scheme, Northland, wq 2233
Health services advisory committee, q, 2317
Immigration-
Officers overseas postings, wq 2228
Internal Affairs-
Nash papers in national archives, q, 2165
New Zealand Literary Fund-grants, wq 2231
Justice-
Marriage guidance councils, q, 1915
Prison population, wq 1816
National
superannuation-superannuitants,
concessions and the economy, 2003
Railways-
Bus services, Wellington-New Plymouth, wq
1815
Regional Development-
Suspensory loans, wq 1843
Taranaki, wq 1825
Wanganui, wq 1825
Social Welfare-
Divorce statistics, q, 2046
Family Affairs Cabinet Committee, q, 1911


## p. xvi (#844) ############################################

xvi
INDEX
MARSHALL, Mr C. R., M.P.-continued
Social Welfare-continued
Intellectually handicapped, residential homes,
9, 1995, 2087
Linden Home-admissions, wq 2223
National superannuation-hospital patients,
9, 1910
Social Welfare workers, q, 1717
Social workers-resignation, wq 2222
State Services-
State servants-departmental houses, q, 2210
Twizel site and accommodation allowance,
9, 2047
Statistics-
Import prices index, wq 1834
Trade and Industry-
Book production inquiry, wq 2232
Imports of office equipment, 9, 1574
MEMBERS
Death of members and ex-members; mark of
respect,
Roussell, Mr E. A., 2339
MINES-
Coal deposits, Huntly-testing of private land, 9,
1619
Coal processing plant for Westport, q, 2082
Huntly coal-Government control, wq 1834
Huntly-development of underground coal
mines, wq 1840
Petroleum exploration licences, Taranaki, 9,
1620
MINISTERIAL STATEMENT—
Relations with Fiji-New Zealand trade union-
ists involvement, 1561
MINOGUE, Mr M., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2113-16
Parliament-
Need for change in procedures, 2115
Transport-
Road safety problems, 2114
MOTIONS-DISCUSSION-
Improvement in external trade, m, 2057
Migration loss, m, 2053
National superannuation, m, 2274
Unemployment, m, 2061
Violent demonstrations, m, 2049
MULDOON, Rt. Hon. R. D., M.P. (Prime Minis-
ter, Minister of Finance, Minister in Charge of the
Legislative Department, Minister in Charge of the
Audit Department, Minister in Charge of the New
Zealand Security Intelligence Service)—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2327
Legislative, e, 2322
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, e,
2326,7
Prime Minister's Department, e, 2323,4,5
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2204, 2282
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1730
Civil List Amendment, 3R 2283
MULDOON, Rt. Hon. R. D., M.P.—continued
Bills-continued
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2358
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), 1 R
2339,40,1,2,3,4,5,6
Land Tax (Annual), IR 2348
Legislature Amendment, 2R 2283,5
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1688
Potato Growing Industry, IR 1557
Private Savings Banks Amendment, IR 1717;
2R 2288
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment, IR 1716;
2R 2285,7
Finance-
Leakage of Budget Taxing Proposals, 1881
Ministerial Statement-
Relations with Fiji-New Zealand trade
unionists involvement, 1561
Notices of motion-admissibility-
Procedure-held over, 1666
Petitions-
Drugs-illegal importation-
Canon I.A. Clarke and 258 others, pet, 1759
Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
Student demonstration, 1907
NATIONAL ROADS BOARD-
Road works expansion-Government grant,
1611
NEW ZEALAND
SECURITY
INTELLI-
GENCE SERVICE-
Estimates, e, 2325
O'BRIEN, Mr J. G., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2333
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1704-08
Local Government Amendment (No. 2), IR
2311,12
Exports to the Middle East, 1705
Foreign Affairs-
Radio single sideband equipment for Fiji, q,
1721
Health-
Chiropody benefit, q, 1914
Wellington Hospital Board-acquisition of
residential properties, 9, 1618
Local Authorities-
Funds for passenger transport-capital
replacement, 1707
NAFTA-New Zealand attitude, 1705
OECD report on New Zealand economy,
Oil exploration, 1705
1706
Recreation and sports grants-community
distribution, wq 1815
OVERSEAS TRADE-
Beef exports to America-ANZUS talks, q, 2162
IMF assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598
Import barriers to primary products, wq 1823
Import price index, 1593
Manufactured exports using indigenous raw
materials, q, 1812
NAFTA-New Zealand attitude, 1705


## p. xvii (#845) ###########################################

SESSION III, 1977
xvii
OVERSEAS TRADE-continued
OECD assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598, 1663, 1708
OECD report on New Zealand economy, 1706
Primary produce exports, wq 1825
Proposals for gaining access to overseas markets,
1776
Trade commission, Bangkok-criticism,
wq
1824
Trade deficit-Government record,
1599,
1608,42,45,55,57,63, 1766,74,85,95
28,30,53,83, 2028
1900
PERSONAL EXPLANATION-
Thomson, Hon. David-
Demonstration at the Dunedin Town Hall,
2076
PERSONAL STATEMENT-
Kirk, Mr N. J.—
Interjection concerning head of Prime Minis-
ter's Department, 2158
PETITIONS-
Drugs-illegal importation-
Canon I.A. Clarke and 258 others-public
inquiry into the financing and importation
of illicit drugs, pet, 1759
Free-calling telephone services-
Hawkins, G. W., and 5088 others, tabled pet,
1582
POETS CORNER-
'Tis not so deep as a well, nor so wide as a church
door; but 'tis enough, 'twill serve. Romeo and
Juliet, Act iii, Sc. i;-
Shakespeare, Wm-
Templeton, Hon. H. C., 1597
POLICE-
Developments and causes of shortages on police
staff, 2013
Eviction by police of families at Upper Hutt, 9,
2086
Heroin-disposal of confiscated drugs, q, 2044
Numbers, 9, 2163
Offences against the person, wq 1833
Offences statistics-
Increase, wq 1829
June quarter, wq 1833
Police to population ratio, q, 2215
Trespass Act, Section 9(2)-police appearances,
9, 2316
POST OFFICE-
Alleged complaints of inefficiency, 1772
Capital development programme, 9, 1574
Capital programme, q, 2319
Charges, 1772
Closures, wq 1827
Effect of subsidy payments, q, 2043
Greytown manual telephone exchange clos-
ure-staff lay-offs, wq 1814
Manual telephones, q, 2082
National superannuation-financing, 9, 2215
Personal housing loans scheme, q, 1994
Post Office operations-subsidy,
Services, 1771
Staff numbers, wg 1833
9, 1621
Telecommunications expenditure, 9, 2088
POST OFFICE-continued
Telephone exchanges-
Howick, q, 2047
Massey, q, 2161
Proposed Auckland area, 1773
Telephone and semi-automatic exchange,
Ruatoria, q, 1812
Temporary installations, Auckland, q, 1580
Waipawa, Waipukurau, and Porangahau, 9,
1725
Telephone subscribers using party lines, q, 2085
Telephone waiting list-Dunedin, wq 1835
PREBBLE, Mr R. W., M.P.—
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report before
budget speech in the House, 1553, 2021
Attorney-General-
Supreme Court-temporary judges, wq 1845
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2019-26
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1728
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1582
Ministry of Energy, 1R 1569,70-1
Moneylenders Amendment, 1R 1694,5
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1627-8
Education-
Waiheke area school-staffing, wq 2222
Foreign Affairs-
Nuclear bomb tests-Mururoa, q, 1579; wq
1835
Justice-
Penalties for lawbreakers, 9, 1758
Local Government-
Waiheke County Council rates, q, 1721
Prime Minister-
Press statements by Prime Minister's staff, m,
2076
Trade and Industry-
Waiheke Island-closure of clothing factory, q,
2082
Transport-
Car pools-insurance contracts, 9, 2041
Developments arising out of increasing road
tax-new transport limits, 2025
Road transport haulage-extension of 40-mile
limit, 2025
Urban transport-officials committee report,
wq 1820
PRIME MINISTER'S DEPARTMENT-
Estimates, e, 2322
Ministerial Statement-
Relations with Fiji-New Zealand trade
unionists involvement, 1561
Motor cycle gangs and overstayers, 9, 1751
Nash papers in National Archives-removal by
SIS, 9, 2218
Press statements by Prime Minister's staff, m,
2076
PRIVILEGE-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
QUESTIONS AND REPLIES-
Adjournment discussion, 1869, 2264
Correction-Trade and Industry-
Food subsidies-removal, 1582


## p. xviii (#846) ##########################################

xviii
INDEX
QUIGLEY, Mr D. F., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1953-6
Citizens and Aliens, tabled 1585; 1640; tabled
1746
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1634-5
Fishing industry-
Expansion and development, 1954
Fishing vessel ownership savings scheme, 1956
Importing larger fishing vessels; duty free with
conditions, 1955
Mussel farming, 1954
Improvement in external trade, m, 2060
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1953
Regional Development—
Rangiora district-allowance in budget, 1953
RAILWAYS-
Auckland-Waitakere line, q, 1751
Blue Streak railcar-developments arising from
stopping service, 2008,11
Bus service, Wellington-New Plymouth, q, 1815
Engine drivers-emigrants, wq 1818
Kaimai railway tunnel, q, 1721
Level crossing protection, wq 2218
Prosecutions for theft, q, 1757
Railcars-increase in service, 1610,48,55
Railway employees, Whangarei City, 9, 2212
Railway line upgrading, Otago, q, 2084, 2132
Removal of subsidies, wq 1843
Services expansion, Auckland, 1750,64
Tradesmen's wage relativity, wq 1819
Transport efficiency, wq 1819
RATA, Hon. M., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2330
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1659-62
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1729
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust,
IR 1918,22,23
Economic management, 1659
Education-
Maori language teachers, 9, 1579
Environment-
Commission for the Environment legislation,
9, 2214
Environmental procedures-urgent overhaul,
q, 2319
Labour-
Factory workers, Northland, wq 2234
Maori Affairs-
Increase of psychiatric illness amongst Maori
population, 1661
Maori land advisory committee and Maori
landowners, q, 2215
Staff-welfare and administration, 1661
Northland-standard of living, 1660
Outflow of New Zealanders, 1660
Tax structure, 1659
RECREATION AND SPORT-
Recreation and sports grants-community
distribution, wq 1815
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT-
Assistance, 9, 2214
East Coast, wq 1832
King Country, wq 1824
Marlborough, wq 1831
Northland, wq 1826
Otago, wq 1826
South Canterbury, wq 1821
Southland, wq 1825
Taranaki, wq 1825
Wairarapa, wq 1826
Wanganui, wq 1825
West Coast, wq 1821
Capital assistance-commercial
development, 1790
resource
Government assistance to human and material
resources, 1602
Grants for manufacturing and processing
projects in high priority regions, 1789
Manufacturing closures-
Canterbury, wq 2222
East Coast, wq 2225
Otago, wq 2223
Southland, wq 2226
Wairarapa, wq 2225
Mortgage advances, wq 2235
Opposition's achievements and proposals, 1595
Otago, 2172
Programme-restrictions, wq 2228
Rangiora district-allowance in budget, 1953
Regional resources surveys, q, 1909
St. George and Co., Dunedin-closure, wq 1838
South Auckland-social and economic needs,
1792
Southland, 2203
Summary of development-South and mid-
Canterbury, 1940
Suspensory loans, wq 1843; q, 2161, 2221
Suspensory loans, East Coast, q, 1670
Wairarapa incentive payments, 1951
REHABILITATION—
Vietnam veterans-rehabilitation loans, wq 1832
REWETI, Mr P. B., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1956-7, 1965-7
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust,
IR 1924
Education-
Community colleges, 1966
Labour-
Factory workers, East Coast, wq 2233
Maori Affairs-
Maori housing, 1966
Regional Development-
Manufacturing closures-East Coast, wq 2225
Works and Development-
Roading programme, Highway 2, 9, 2314
ROGERS, Mr F. L., M.P.-
Agriculture-
1080 poison with apple pulp attractant, q, 2318
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2070-4
Broadcasting-
TV2-coverage programme, wq 1830


## p. xix (#847) ############################################

SESSION III, 1977
xix
ROGERS, Mr F. L., M.P.-continued
Post Office-
Closures, wq 1827
Staff numbers, wq 1833
State Services-
Special work employees, wq 1830
Works and Development-
District Roads Council No. 8-cost of meet-
ings, q, 2045
ROWLING, Rt. Hon. W. E., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill—
"Prime Minister's Department, e, 2322
Bills-
Agricultural Workers, 1R 1678
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1588-96
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2359
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), 1R
2340,1,2
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1689
Potato Growing Industry, 1R 1557
Energy Resources-
Finance-
Oil exploration, 1594
Consumer price index, 1593
Import price index, 1593, 1663
Interest rates, 1592
Leakage of Budget taxing proposals, 1882
Tax refunds for families, 1590
Tax structure, 1589
Young farmers-financial difficulties, 1595
Housing-
Private mortgage interest rates, 1591
Immigration-
Outflow of New Zealanders, 1596
Improvement in external trade, m, 2060
Notices of motion-admissibility—
Procedure-held over, 1666
OECD declaration, 1593
Regional Development-
Opposition's achievements and proposals,
1595
Social Welfare-
National superannuation, 1591
Transport-
Government policy, 1594
RURAL BANKING AND FINANCE
CORPORATION—
Farming-
Finance for new development, q, 2318
Vendor finance scheme, 1665
Livestock incentive scheme-
Stock unit increase-reduction in minimum
qualifying numbers, 1800
Loans-
Interest rates and concessions, 1800
Otago, q, 2087
SCHULTZ, Mr L. C., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2117-20
Forests-
Indigenous timber price increase, q, 1671
Inland Revenue-
Income tax rate on income under $2,000, 9,
2320
SCHULTZ, Mr L. C., M.P.-continued
Petitions-
Free-calling telephone services—
Hawkins, G.W. and 5088 others, tabled pet,
1582
Works and Development-
National Roads Board-income and alloca-
tions, wq 1837
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY—
National Research Advisory Council report, wq
1821
SELECT COMMITTEE-
Appointment of special committee to report on
Bills, 1553
Leakage of budget taxing proposals-
Appointment-inquiry into alleged newspaper
report, 1588
SHEARER, Dr I. J., M.P.—
Agriculture-
Ruakura Animal Research Station-new abat-
toir, q, 2320
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2124-6,51-4
Forests-Maruia Declaration petition, q, 1624
Health-
Diabetics requiring insulin treatment, q, 2083
Family health counselling centres, wq 1817
Heroin disposal, wg 1844
Lands-
Little Barrier Island-extermination of wild
cats, 9, 2042
Police
Heroin disposal of confiscated drugs, q, 2044
Trade disposable syringes, 9, 2083
SOCIAL WELFARE-
Assistance for elderly former psychiatric
patients, q, 1963
Children-
Birth statistics, q, 2160
Children's boards, q, 2045
Disabled young persons-research into needs,
wq 1823
Foster care children, q, 1576; wq 1832
Court appearances, wq 1833
Divorce statistics, q, 2046
Domestic purposes benefit-
De facto relationships, 4, 1992
Marriage counselling, wq 1823
Review committee-
Recommendation 24, q, 2047
Recommendation 25, q, 1991
Recommendation 28, 2R 2041
Report, q, 1754
Family Affairs Cabinet Committee, q, 1911
Intellectually handicapped-residential homes,
q, 1995, 2087
Linden Home-admissions, wq 2223
Massey and Ranui-Social Development Coun-
cil report, 9, 2213
National superannuation, 1591, 1600,43,63,
1770,99, 1935,48,50,77
Comparisons with universal superannuation
and New Zealand superannuation, 1799
Concessions, q, 2135,7
Cost, wq 1842
Description of system, 1999


## p. xx (#848) #############################################

XX
INDEX
SOCIAL WELFARE-continued
National superannuation-continued
Effect on people in varying situations, 2035
Hospital patients, q, 1910
In relation to average weekly wage, 2007
Statistics, q, 2217
Superannuitants-concessions
economy, 2003
and the
Tax structure in relation to expenditure, 2001
Television concession, q, 2321
Services provided by voluntary organisations, 2R
2043
Social problems-Napier, 2067
Social Welfare workers, 9, 1717
Social workers-resignations, wq 2222
War service pensions, wq 1824
SPEAKER, Mr (Hon. Sir ROY JACK, M.P.)—
Notice of motion-admissibility-
Procedure-held over, 1666
Wage offer to CSSO-alleged leak to press;
held over, 2040
Observations-Bills-
Agricultural Workers-
Guidelines to first reading debate, 1677
Observations-Conduct-
Members mentioned as being asleep should be
avoided, 1777
Observations-Notices
missibility-
of
motion-ad-
Procedure-economic subject may remain,
1716
Observations-out of order-
To make reference to a member's private
affairs, 1979
To say a member knowingly told a lie, 1777
Observations-Questions-
Supplementary questions should relate to orig-
inal, 1723
Rulings-alleged budget leak-
Discussion of report of select committee
allowed, 2021
Discussion on subject allowed—not intended
to be debated in future, 2020
Rulings-Bills-
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering)-
Member misquoted-correction statement
may be made at end of speech, 1731
Member's word should be accepted; two
opposite views are debatable, 1732
Proper content of debate; confined to
technicalities-adoption of committee
report, 1731,4,5,6
Public Bill and Local; discussion allowed on
decision-being technical blocking of
proper course of redress, 1733,4,6
Citizens and Aliens-
Tabling of Bill-guidelines of debate, 1584
Moneylenders Amendment-
First reading debate-guiding principles,
1691,2
Potato Growing Industry—
Limit of first reading debate, 1558,60
Rulings-Notices of motion, admissibility—
Statements of facts and names must be authen-
tic and necessary, 1613
Rulings-Out of order-
Rigging the books, 1783
To read a statement from outside the House
about debate in question, 1890
SPEAKER, Mr (Hon. Sir ROY JACK, M.P.)—
continued
Rulings-Petitions—
Drugs-illegal importation-
Procedure-
Member who presents petition cannot
comment again, 1759
When presenting committee report, no
debate proceeds, 1759
Rulings-Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1554
Not proved; inquiry recommended, 1587
Rulings-procedure
Press statements by Prime Minister's
staff-admissibility of motion, m, 2081
Rulings Questions--
Auckland-Papakura railway line-
Subject of Order of Day and Budget propos-
als, 1726
Oil imports by OECD countries-remote to
New Zealand Ministry but allowed, 1669
Questions not on S.O.P.-raise the point at
immediate time of discussion, 1871
Rulings-Student demonstration-
Instruction not given to police preventing
Labour member to speak to student gather-
ing, 1805, 1907
Notice of motion-admissibility; not accepted,
1806
Rulings-Unparliamentary language-
An envious Casca or a dangerous Brutus, 2028
Blatant deception of the worst type, 1889
Bloody great step backwards, 1589
Bullfrog, 1786
Comparing members of the staff of the Prime
Minister with those involved in Watergate,
2024
It is a bungle, 1699
It is a swindle, 1699
It's a lie, 2023
John Boy, 1893
Lowest of the low, 2209
Richard Nixon, the member is akin to, 2023
Surely this isn't a Police State yet?, 1806
That's untrue, 1989
The member has an unfortunate split person-
ality of snideness, 1870
Tribute-
Roussell, Late Mr Eric Alwyn, former Clerk of
the House, 2339
SPEAKER, ACTING, (Mr J. F. Luxton, M.P.)—
Rulings-Unparliamentary language-
Did not have the courage to speak out clearly,
2037
SPEAKER, DEPUTY, AND CHAIRMAN OF
COMMITTEES (Mr J. R. Harrison, M.P.)—
Observations-misrepresentation-
Member may correct statement about himself
relating to debate in question, 1049
Observations-Questions-
Supplementary questions should elucidate
original answer, 1574,6,8
Rulings-Bills-
Ministry of Energy-
Limit of first reading debate; energy policy
not within guidelines, 1570
Moneylenders Amendment-
First reading guiding principles and time
limits, 1687,94


## p. xxi (#849) ############################################

SESSION III, 1977
xxi
SPEAKER, DEPUTY, AND CHAIRMAN OF
COMMITTEES (Mr J. R. HARRISON,
M.P.)-continued
Rulings-Bills-continued
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust-
First reading debate-principles, 1925
Rulings-Out of order—
Deliberate distortion, 2200
Rulings-Procedure-
Personal explanations, 2274
Rulings-Unparliamentary language-
Convicted of breaking the law, a Minister had
been, 1637
Deliberately broken promises, member had,
1605
Guilty of breaking the law, a Minister had
been, 1637
It's a lie deliberate misrepresentation, 2273
Once a ratbag always a ratbag, 1689
STATE INSURANCE OFFICE-
Prosecutions for theft, q, 1911
STATE SERVICES
Air traffic controllers, Auckland, q, 2159
Child care-Government involvement, wq 2234
Employment levels, q, 1909
Public sector-employment levels, wq 2229
Special work employees, wq 1830
State servants-departmental houses, q, 2210
Twizel site and accommodation allowance, q,
2047
STATISTICS-
Beer and cigarette tax estimates, wq 1818
Import prices index, wq 1834
TALBOT, Mr R. L. G., M.P.-
Agriculture-
Farm employee accommodation, 1942
Primary industry-productivity, 1944
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1940-44
Reserves Bill, tabled 1741
Territorial Sea and Exclusive Economic Zone,
tabled 1739
Finance-
Overseas exchange from visitors, q, 1619
Immigration-
Assisted passages, wq 1843
Migration loss, m, 2056
Increasing gap between wealthy and poor
nations, 1943
Regional Development-
Summary of development-South and mid-
Canterbury, 1940
Tourism-
Rarotongan Hotel, q, 1720
Visitors from main marketing areas, wq 2234
Trade and Industry-
Secondary industries-productivity, 1944
Transport-
Road haulage-extension of 40-mile limit,
1942
Road-sales tax, vehicles; adjustments, 1942
TALBOYS, Hon. B. E., M.P. (Deputy Prime Minis-
ter, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Over-
seas Trade)-
Appropriation Bill—
Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
30,1,2,4,7,8
e, 2328,
TALBOYS, Hon. B. E., M.P.-continued
Appropriation Bill-continued
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, e,
2327
Prime Minister's Department, e, 2324,5
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2105-9
Income tax levels, 2107
Role of public servants in Parliament, 2107
TEMPLETON, Hon. H. C., M.P. (Minister of
Broadcasting, Minister of Statistics, Associate
Minister of Finance, Minister in Charge of Inland
Revenue Department, Minister in Charge of Friendly
Societies)-
Appropriation Bill-
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, e, 2329
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1596-1604
Income Tax Amendment, IR 2346,7
Land Tax (Annual), IR 2347,8,50
Economic development, 1601
Economic management, 1601
Energy Resources-
Coal and geothermal research, 1602
Hydro-electric development, 1602
Oil exploration, 1602
Fishing industry-
Economic 200-mile zone, 1596, 1602
IMF assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598
National superannuation, 1600
OECD assessment of New Zealand's financial
record, 1598
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1599
Regional Development-
Government assistance to human and material
resources, 1602
Tax refunds for families, 1600
Tax structure, 1600
Transport-
Urban development, 1603
THOMSON, Hon. DAVID, M.C., E.D., M.P.
(Minister of Justice)—
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report before
budget speech in the House, 2026
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2026-8
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1737
Carriage of Goods, IR 2127,30
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2357
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, IR
2141
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1685,9,95
Securities Transfer, 3R 2283
Trustee Amendment, 3R 2283
Wanganui Computer Centre Act Commence-
ment Order, tabled 1635-6
Wills Amendment, IR 1916
Finance-
Leakage of Budget taxing proposals, 1878
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
2028
Tax refunds for families, 2027
Tax structure, 2027


## p. xxii (#850) ###########################################

xxii
INDEX
THOMSON, Hon. DAVID, M.C., E.D., M.P.-
continued
Personal explanation—
Demonstration at the Dunedin Town Hall,
2076
Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
Violent demonstrations, m, 2051
TIRIKATENE-SULLIVAN, Hon. Mrs T. W.
M., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill—Financial statement, 2R
1986-9,98
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2367
Human Rights Commission, 2R 2298-2301
Moneylenders Amendment, IR 1686-8
Inflation-proof savings scheme, 1987
Police-
Eviction by police of families at Upper Hutt, 9,
2086
Social Welfare-
Economy-cost of living affecting the family,
1987
Families coping with children in stressful
conditions, 1988
People-our main resource, 1998
Youth centres-clientele mainly Maori and
Polynesian, 1998
TIZARD, Hon. R. J., M.P.—
Appropriation Bill-
Foreign Affairs, e, 2328
New Zealand Security Intelligence Service, e,
2326
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1780-6
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2370
Finance (Inflation-Adjusted Bonds), 1 R
2339,40,2,5
Income Tax Amendment, IR 2346
Land Tax (Annual), IR 2347,8,9
Private Savings Banks Amendment, 1R 1717;
2R 2288
Trustee Savings Banks Amendment, 1R 1716;
2R 2286
Finance-
Economic policy-Opposition view, 1786
Improvement in external trade, m, 2058
Tax on clothes dryers, 1785
National superannuation, m, 2274
Privilege-
Alleged budget leak-newspaper report, 1553
TOURISM-
Australian visitors group tour costs, q, 1964
Chateau Commodore and THC, 4, 1996
Hotel accommodation-tavern levy fund, q, 1722
Rarotongan Hotel, q, 1720
Tourist accommodation in Auckland
Christchurch, 9, 1914
Tourist industry expansion, 1790
Visitors from main marketing areas, wq 2234
TRADE AND INDUSTRY-
Book production inquiry, wq 2232
and
Commerce Act-criteria for capital cost of
production, q, 1990
Consumer price index, 1593, 1663, 1713
TRADE AND INDUSTRY-continued
Disposable syringes, q, 2083
Exports-agricultural and forestry, 2038
Exports to the Middle East, 1705
Factories-assistance with financial problems, q,
1808
Imports of office equipment, q, 1574
Imports raw materials and manufacturing
components, q, 1616
Miller's Ltd, Christchurch-sackings, q, 1757
NAFTA-improvement of trade imbalance with
Australia, 2017
position of relationship between ministers
and of trade imbalance, 2016
-protection tariffs and quotas by Australian
Government, 2017
Professional charges-hourly rate proposal, wq
2226
Question-correction-
Food subsidies-removal, 1582
Removal of subsidies, 1712
Sales tax on plant and machinery, 1697
Secondary industries-productivity, 1944
Waiheke Island-closure of clothing factory, q,
2082
Woollen mill, Ashburton, 9, 1672
Woollen mills at Mosgiel and Ashburton, q, 1753
TRANSPORT-
Car pools-insurance contracts, 9, 2041
Freight rates, q, 1810
Government policy, 1594
Harbours-
Development of Tauranga Port to relieve
congestion at Auckland, 2031
Non-container ports-trade, 9, 2165
Port of Napier-development, 2066
Secondary ports-wool shipping schedule, q,
2211
Industry-
Restructuring, 1647,99
National
transport
plan,
proposed-co-
ordinating all modes under one operating
management, 2030
Pricing policy, q, 1994
Road-
Haulage-extension of 40-mile limit, 1887,
1900,5,33,42,51,75, 2025
Heavy motor vehicle licences, q, 2162
Limit-extension, 1610,47
New tax system, 1648
Policy changes and long distance fee-Road
Transport Association view, 1889,90, 1904,6
Safety problems, 2114
Sales tax, vehicles-adjustments, 1649, 1942
Vehicles-new distance charge, q, 2083,6
Shipping-
Coastal Trader-freight charges, q, 1809
Seamen employed in New Zealand-registered
ships, q, 2088
Transport Department-prosecutions for theft,
9, 1914
Urban-
Development, 1603
Government assistance, wq 1818
Officials committee report, wq 1820
Passenger and bus services, Auckland, 1750,63
Replacing buses, 1647


## p. xxiii (#851) ##########################################

SESSION III, 1977
xxiii
TRIBUTE-
Mark of respect-
Roussell, Late Mr E.A., former Clerk to the
House, 2339
VALUATION—
Farm prices, Whangarei County, 9, 2045
WALKER, Hon. H. F., M.P. (Minister of Social
Welfare, Minister in Charge of the Government Life
Insurance Office, Minister in Charge of the State
Insurance Office, Minister in Charge of the
Earthquake and War Damage Commission)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1998-2002
Government Life Insurance Amendment, 3R
2283
National superannuation-description of system,
1999
--
tax structure in relation to expenditure,
2001
WALL, Dr G. A., M.P.—
Bills--
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1795-8
Bastion Point (Vesting and Empowering),
tabled 1734
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion, IR
2360
Legislature Amendment, 2R 2284
Economy-cost of living affecting the family,
1796
Education-
Comparison of educational philosophy with
Polynesian system, 1798
Increasing numbers without standard educa-
tion, 1796
Teachers-educational philosophy, changes
apparent, 1797
Taxation changes, m, 2282
WALLS, RICHARD F., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2170-5
Health-
Neurosurgical unit, Dunedin, q, 2315
Regional Development-
Assistance, q, 2214
Otago, 2172
St. George and Co., Dunedin-closure, wq
1838
Suspensory loans, 9, 2161
Rural Banking and Finance Corporation-
Rural Bank-loans in Otago, q, 2087
WARING, MARILYN J., M.P.—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill—Financial statement, 2R
2193-6
Education-
Kindergarten teachers-salary increase, wq
2224
Pre-school education-additional funds, wq
2225
Women on statutory bodies, wq 2224
Health-
Contraception, Sterilisation, and Abortion
commission, wq 2221
Health centre, Manukau City, q, 2165
WARING, MARILYN J., M.P.-continued
Politicians today-assessment, 2194
Social Welfare-
People-our main resource, 2194
State Services-
Child care-Government involvement, wq
2234
Superannuation-projection of future costs,
WAR PENSIONS-
2194
War pensioners-continuation of fringe benefits,
wq 1831
WELLINGTON, Mr M. L., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1791-5
Customs-
Drug law enforcement courses, q, 1807
Foreign fishing vessel entry tax, q, 1755
Education-
Expanding facilities needed for growing south
Auckland area, 1794
Post-primary schools-general expenses grant,
9, 1719
Secondary school teachers-recruitment, q,
1724
Teachers salaries negotiations, q, 2216
Truancy, q, 1622
Energy Resources-
Oil imports by OECD countries, q, 1669
Finance-
New Zealand superannuation scheme-
refunds, q, 2316
Tax refunds for families, 1792
Health-
Health centre, Manukau City-use for teach-
ing, 9, 2217
Health Department-staff changes at Wiri
office, q, 1913
Middlemore Hospital-extramural services, q,
2210
South Auckland-proposed new health centre,
Manukau City, 1793
South Auckland-proposed new hospitals,
East Tamaki and Papakura, 1793
Housing-
Post office home ownership accounts, q, 1758
Housing Corporation-
Interest rates, 1792
Justice-
Magistrate's Court, Papakura, q, 1575
Labour-
Special work scheme in private sector, m, 2065
Unemployment, m, 2065
Post Office-
Capital development programme, q, 1574,
2319
Effect of subsidy payments, 2R 2043
Personal housing loans scheme, q, 1994
Post Office operations-subsidy, 9, 1621
Telephone exchanges-temporary installa-
tions, Auckland, 9, 1580
South Auckland-social and economic needs,
1792
WETERE, Mr K. T., M.P.-
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
2032


## p. xxiv (#852) ###########################################

xxiv
INDEX
WETERE, Mr K. T., M.P.-continued
Bills-continued
Queen Elizabeth the Second National Trust,
IR 1920
Education-
Auckland Education Board-attendance offic-
ers, wq 1837
Bairds Primary School-teacher-aid hours, wq
1842
Forests-
Sawlog production, wq 2227
Sawmills-employment, wq 2227
Lands-
Forestry-land purchases, wq 2227
Settlement scheme, 2034
Tax refunds for families, 2033
Welfare of Maori people, 2033
WILKINSON, Hon. P. I., M.P. (Attorney-General,
Minister of Customs, Postmaster-General)—
Bills-
Appropriation Bill-Financial statement, 2R
1769-73
Customs Orders Confirmation, IR 2351
Drug Sentencing and Prevention of Misuse, q,
2143
Economic management, 1770
National superannuation, 1770
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1769
Post Office-
Alleged complaints of inefficiency, 1772
Charges, 1772
Services, 1771
Telephone exchanges, proposed-Auckland
area, 1773
WORKS AND DEVELOPMENT-
Chatham Islands Air services, wq 1841
Clutha development, q, 2159
Contracting industry, q, 2048
Contracting work-economic restraint, wq 1845
Contractors, 4, 2042
Contractors' plant, q, 2164
Geothermal energy development, wq 1833
Irrigation schemes, 1609; q, 1754
Clutha River, 1610
Water and soil development, 1609
Water and soil projects, 2099
National Roads Board-
District Roads Council No. 8-cost of meet-
ings, 9, 2045
Finance, q, 2319
Income and allocations, wq 1837
Roading programme, Highway 2, q, 2314
WORKS AND DEVELOPMENT-continued
North Canterbury Catchment Board-Akaroa
and Lyttelton, wq 1836
Rural water supply schemes, q, 1915
Town and country planning legislation, q, 2131
Wainuiomata hill-Java tunnelling machine, wq
1827
Wainuiomata hill road-upgrading, wq 1827,
1832
YOUNG, Mr T. J., M.P.—
Economy-cost of living affecting the family,
1766,7
Energy Resources-
Central Otago proposed hydro development,
1769
Housing loans-interest rates, 1768
Inland Revenue-
Tax refunds for families, 1767
Tax structure, 1767
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1766
YOUNG, Hon. V. S., (Minister of Lands, Minister of
Forests, Minister for the Environment, Minister in
Charge of the Valuation Department)————
Energy Resources-research programme, 1929
Forestry encouragement grant scheme, 1930
Land use study, 1931
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1928,30
YOUNG, Hon. W. L., M.P. (Minister of Works and
Development)-
Energy Resources-
Geothermal investigation programme, 1609
Hydro-electric development, 1609
Oil exploration, 1609
House prices, 1608
Irrigation schemes, 1609
Clutha River, 1610
Water and soil development, 1609
National Roads Board-
Road works expansion-Government grant,
1611
Overseas trade deficit-Government record,
1608
Railcars-increase in service, 1610
Tax refunds for families, 1611
Tax structure, 1608
Transport-road limit, extension, 1610
BY AUTHORITY:
E. C. KEATING, GOVERNMENT PRINTER, WELLINGTON, NEW ZEALAND-1978
4707G-77


## p. (#853) ################################################



## p. (#854) ################################################

