Artist: Warren Zevon 
Album: Excitable Boy 
Record Label: Asylum 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Warren Zevon's debut could hardly have been more auspicious. His first album was almost universally praised as the most promising to come from thewhole L.A. circus since that of his mentor and producer, Jackson Browne. Even Linda Ronstadt, however questionable her taste otherwise, knew a good thing when she saw it, and made a few million more out of cover versions of “Hasten Down The Wind" and “Poor, Poor Pitiful Me". 
The news of long delays and rerecording for his second album gave rise to visions of an over-produced and overwrought follow up. The gothic inclinations of songs like “The French Inhaler" could easily have been taken to maudlin extremes. Instead, Excitable Boy fits much more comfortably into the mainstream of Los Angeles A.M. rock hyperstardom than ever seemed possible. 
With a sound completely dominated by Ms Ronstadt's current one-man-band, Waddy Wachtel, Warren Zevon rattles off a nice little mixture of tunes, often with a winning taste for the grotesque. At times, as in “Werewolves of London", he can reach heights of deranged genius, but, sadly, the rest of the time he is not much more than cute.
It seems that Zevon saved up and polished the songs for his debut album for years, and confronted with the necessity for a second so soon, was forced into a much less substantial offering. Jackson has released only five albums in the last seven or more years and his greater discipline shows in the more even quality of his output. That first album had Zevon fighting it out for a place in Neil Young/Jackson Bronwe/Joni Mitchell territory. Now he looks more destined for the Andrew Gold/J.D. Souther stakes.
Artist: Genesis 
Album: Seconds Out 
Record Label: Charisma
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
This, I fear, will not be an objective review.
Having been a confirmed Genesis freak for a number of years, and suffering for it, I feel duty bound to say this is one of the finest live albums ever recorded, and certainly one of my picks for Album Of The Year.
And believe me, Genesis fans do suffer for their faith. They are followers of one of the world's most underrated and maligned bands. Detractors’ comments range from “technoflash rubbish’’ to “boring and self-indulgent." 
Mention the name and you’re bound to hear someone say “Oh God, you don’t like them, do you?" 
Whether it’s the heavily keyboard-dominated sound, the Elizabethan eccentricities of the lyrics, or the length and complexity of the numbers that turns people off Genesis, I'm not sure. Whatever it is, I’ve found much of it to be a product of ignorance and a simple lack of application. 
Genesis do require some thought and concentration on the part of the listener. But I'll take one of their albums to a dozen Pink Floyds any day. 
They play with tremendous drive and skill, and their compositions are small masterpieces. No better display of their talents can be found than on this live album.
Genesis live are an aural experience without equal, and anyone who saw the film of one of their concerts that came through town recently will have no doubts about their visual appeal. 
The production alone on this album would leave many recent studio efforts at the starting gate. It’s crisp and superbly balanced, and the tracks have been selected with great care, to. show all the facets of the band.
There’d be little point in giving individual credits here, as the overall quality is so high, but mention should be made of the splendid renderings of “Squonk" and “Carpet Crawl”, not to mention a masterful “Supper’s Ready”, which has a physical potency that leaves the listener staggering. 
The musicianship is never less than excellent, and often sublime. There is nothing leaden about Genesis, with the combined talents of three of the world’s finest drummers (Chester Thompson, Bill Bruford and Phil Collins), and a marvellously inventive bass player in Mike Rutherford.
Collins is an admirable vocalist and frontman, and Tony Banks pisses all over Rick Wakeman and Keith Emerson.
The best way to judge a live album is to ask yourself "Would I have paid money to see this concert?”
Yes, yes, yes, a thousand times over. Play this album to a cynic. If he doesn’t fall breathless against the wall, then he must have cloth ears. 
Artist: Nils Lofgren 
Album: Night After Night 
Record Label: A & M 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Nils Lofgren is the kind of person you’d expect to make a great live album. He has a recording history that extends back over eight years and includes a wealth of strong material to draw on and, equally, he has a reputation as a live performer of great energy and flash.
That Night After Night is not the killer collection that I'd hoped for speaks of the difference between the concert situation and the recorded medium. Devices that are used to maintain excitement in the live show - flashy guitar parts, lengthy solos etc - merely drain the energy from any of the excellent songs Lofgren features here.
On his solo studio album, Lofgren has had trouble in setting the correct balance between his considerable skill as a guitarist and his even greater skill as a songwriter. The tunes often got buried under the riffs. 
On the first two sides of Night After Night, the balance is mostly neatly held. Of the seven tracks there, only the Grin favourite "Like Rain” suffers from heavy handed guitar work, while “Going Back" and “Your’e the Weight” are taut examples of Lofgren at his best. 
But on Sides 3 and 4, when the concert should be cooking to its climax, it slips away. Performances are overly long - "Moon Tears” that in its original 2 minutes 16 seconds form was ferocious, when stretched to over 5 minutes is merely flabby. It’s symptomatic of the lack of focus that is the problem here - the razzle of the show overcomes the power and intensity of the music.
As a live album Night After Night has its flaws, but there is a single album of high points contained within its double cover. But if it serves to introduce one tenth of the people who bought, say, Frampton Comes Alive to the strengths of Nils Lofgren as a songwriter and performer and causes them to investigate his excellent solo albums, I’ll be well pleased. 
Artist: Darts 
Album: Darts
Record Label: Magnet 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Darts are one of the current darlings of the London pub and club scene. Even punkers find it acceptable to be seen bopping to the loving fifties sound of the Darts, and they give a few aging critics a change to come out of their rock and roll closests.
On the strength of this record it is easy to see why Darts might doo-wop up a storm in such an environment. However, short of inviting thirty people into my living room, and turning the lights off, I can't really think of any way to get much out of them on my turntable. 
Unlike Sha Na Na, Darts seem to have an appreciation of doo-wop as living music, and not just a variety act. They write a fair proportion of the material on the record, and seem less wrapped in in kitsch. At the same time, like Sha Na Na, they must be a party band. It just seems so silly to sit in an armchair reading the paper when they are rocking and rolling away. 
Artist: Dennis Wilson 
Album: Pacific Ocean Blue 
Record Label: Caribou 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Dennis Wilson has always seemed the lightweight of the Beach Boys. True, he’s the one who suggested surfing as a theme to brother Brian but his contribution appears slight. 
Pacific Ocean Blue rights the wrong. This first and so far only solo project by a Beach Boy is quite outstanding. It’s certainly steps ahead of any recent Beach Boys album. 
Dennis Wilson has next to no voice, something between foghorn and fragility. He immerses himself in backings of orchestral density; the background vocalists are legion. But it works. The poignancy of Wilson’s delivery slashes through the monumental arrangements and the nearbanality of the lyrics. Teetering on the brink of bathos Dennis Wilson makes art.
Wilson co-wrote the 12 songs, with, among others, his wife and brother Carl and Mike Love, but the songs are all Dennis. His croaking, real voice makes it his. 
Pacific Ocean Blue is a very personal document, its unexpectedness making it even more a pleasure. It’s as if Ringo suddenly became John Lennon.
Artist: Little Feat
Album: Waiting For Columbus
Record Label: Warner Bros. 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Where I live, El Feats have provided the main musical accompaniment to rave-ups and get-downs for at least five years. Many's the time I’d affix some poor soul with my glazed eye and demand that he/she acknowledge the Feat as the world’s premier group. Friends and I awaited each new album in the hope that this would be the masterpiece we all knew they were capable of - the one that would convert everybody. The N.Z. concert tour in ’76 won many believers - it not only boogied our sneakers away but displayed the band as having enormous energy, a fact not always evident in that foot-shufflin’, fingerpoppin’, backbone-slippin’, funky chicken we heard on the hi-fi at home. Perhaps, then, the masterpiece would be a live album?
Well this sure ain’t it. Oh, it’s a good live LP by normal criteria but this is the Feats fergrifsake! I’m trying to overcome my disappointment and figure out what’s gone wrong. 
Commercial factors aside, there seem to be three main reasons for making a live album. The first is to present new material, or, more commonly, numbers that are part of a stage act but would not otherwise be recorded. (Van Morrison did this.) Well, apart from a 57 second throwaway of "Don’t Bogart That Joint", there are no new songs on the four sides offered here. So that rules that one out. 
The second reason for a live album is to present rearrangements of old material. (Joni Mitchell did this and we hope Dylan will too, after his current tour.) The Feat rearrange a few numbers, but they rarely come across as improvements. “Sailin’ Shoes” is slow and heavy, thus losing its original delicate charm, "Apolitical Blues" is simply overdone; its humour is spoiled. Only the extended “Dixie Chicken" is a real success: Payne has some witty piano noodling and there’s a New Orleans horn sequence.
The third reason for recording material live is to do it better. And Little Feat don’t. With the exception of Side 3, where Payne's keyboard prowess highlights tight, swaggering performances, the energy they displayed in Auckland seems to have dissipated. Numbers seem just run through, and at times that glorious lurching funk is almost flattened out. On "Willin'” Ken Gradney sounds plain bored. 
The poor quality of both performance and sound fail to make this set an acceptable introductory sampler. Almost any of the previous albums would serve better. 
Is the title significant? Who/what is Columbus: Lowell George’s departed muse, the missing spirit of live performance, or simply a contract to be fulfilled? Maybe the rationale for issuing this sad L.P. is purely economic. After all, George sings "It's a mercenary territory." But that still doesn’t explain what went wrong with the performances. Perhaps further lyrics from the same song suggest the answer. Little Feat might have been touring too hard, and we know there has been internal feuding. 
is it the days into nights 
or the 'l'm sorry's’ into fights? 
whatever it was, I sure hope they fix it. 
Artist: The Clash 
Album: The Clash 
Record Label: CBS 
Artist: The Jam 
Album: In The City 
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: 
“We ain't ashamed to fight," says The Clash’s Mick Jones, and The Clash set out to do this with a vengeance. 
Jones, Joe Strummer and Paul Simonon make ugly, angry music to come out with guns blazing to. No smile on your face when you’re smashing the system with these songs in your heart: 
“In 1977, there’s knives in West Eleven, ain't so lucky to be rich, Sten guns in Knightsbridge . .” 
The Clash hate the country that raised them, and their relationship with each other functions on a strange love-hate basis that manifests itself in their recorded and on stage brand of aggro. 
Jones is a violent manic depressive with the potential to be a true rock casualty. Sort of a New Wave Keith Richard. Strummer is arrogant, self-confident and in control. Simonon is in love with rock n’ Foil! because it gets him laid a lot. 
Between them, they produce concise sputs of breakneck energy, conjuring up a nightmare, 1984-type vision of Blighty that is frightening in its intensity: 
"All across the town, all across the night . . . everybody's driving with four headlights . . . black or white, turn it on, face the new religion . . . everybody's drowning in a sea of television... London’s burning . . “
At the same time, their sincerity shines through as well. They're determined not to prositute themselves or the sake of success.
“I don't want to compromise,” says Strummer, “I think people will come round in time, but if they don’t, it’s too bad."
The only song on this album over two minutes long is the band’s astounding version of Junior Murvin's classic reggae song, “Police And Thieves”. Like many New Wavers, The Clash are reggae fans, but so far, they’re the only band with the guts to record a number, and succeed in making it their own. 
With the Pistols now defunct, the Clash move into the front of the New Wave stakes. Latest reports indicate they've lost none of the impetus created by this first album. Catch them if you can. 
The Jam describe themselves as the black sheep of the New Wave. They drape the Union Jack behind the bandstand when they play. They love their Oueen and country. Paul Weller says he votes Conservative. 
“I don’t see any point in going against your country,” says Weller. “Chaos is not really a positive thought.” 
This attitude is carried on in Weller's songwriting. He doesn’t advocate burning down buildings or rioting in the streets. Life, to him, is what you yourself make of it. Don’t be so ready to blame everyone else for your own problems. 
Image-wise, The Jam came across like Mods of the '60s. In their natty mohair suits and two-tone winklepicker shoes, they look a bit like the Yardbirds did when they played R & B8. 
Their sound is pure Shepherds bush. Weller doesn’t like the comparisons drawn with The Who, but admits to being first turned on by “My Generation.” He plays immaculate Townshend power chords, and even copies Townshend’s stage moves. 
But don’t be too ready to write The Jam off as mere plagiarists. Weller’s ability to construct a song transcends that. He s already written a perfect teen anthem in "In The City”, and "Away From The Numbers” easily takes its place alongside numbers like(sorryPaul) "Won’t Get Fooled Again.” 
Bruce Foxton and Rick Buckler make up a rhythm section of immense, but controlled drive that kicks you right where it hurts. The Jam, in short, are a power trio with a capital P. 
Listen, both these albums are seminal New Wave. Aw hell, reject that tag. All tags stink. Mick Jones says so. These albums are seminal 1970's rock ‘n’ roll, and after a too-long wait, they’re now on general release. If you ain’t listening, you’re way out of touch.
Artist: John Martyn 
Album: One World
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal.
John Martyn may play concerts with just his voice and an acoustic guitar but the man is no run-of-the-mill singer-songwriter. From his folk background, Martyn has moved progresively towards a loosely jazz-flavoured approach. His voice, a whisky-besotted Scots croak, is a sensuous instrument that he uses as an integral part of the sound, with the emphasis more on establishing a mood than on enunciating verbal content. 
One World moves from the comparatively simple folk-song of its title track to the reggae influcenced rhythms of "Big Muff”. But its most impressive moments are Martyn’s most overtly jazz influenced songs. “Sweet Certain Surprise" slips across over a sensuous bossa-nova with an appropriately boozed trombone solo, while "Small Hours” rides on a synthesised heart beat effect to which Martyn contributes echoplex guitar parts that wash dreamily across gently percussion and tasteful synthesiser from Steve Winwood. It’s a protrait of the early morning, stunning in its sensitivity and feel. 
This is John Martyn’s first album in over two years and he maintains a constant progression from his earlier work - he’s a total original and owes no recognisable debts ot anyone else. One World is his most accomplished work to date. At times the electronic effects Martyn uses threaten to submerge his material, but such slips are rare and his humanity, taste and originality shine through. If you thought the idea of the unique artist unfolding his work according to his own judgement was some kind of record company hype, check out John Martyn.
Artist: Various
Album: Saturday Night Fever 
Record Label: RSO 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
If you’ve not already heard, Saturday Night Fever is the mass pressed, mass promoted, money spinning, double album of the soundtrack of the film of the same name. And if you don’t wind up buying it your next door neighbour is bound to, for this is disco, and disco is designed to sell - in units measured by the million. 
Saturday Night Fever is one third a Bee Gees album, incorporating those several singles you can hear so regularly on the American Top Forty. The remaining two thirds is assorted disco, ranging from Tavares, a slick and nearly soulful black group, to. Walter Murphy’s and David Shire’s incidental funk. The latter includes boogie re-arrangements of Beethoven's fifth, and Mussorgsky’s “Night on Bald (Disco) Mountain” (I wonder, do we breathlessly await Mozart crafted into “Eine Kleine Funkmusick" and Sibelius wrought into "Finlandia Boogie”). 
One point emerges more strongly than most from Saturday Night Fever, and that is the growing predominance of white bands with a stranglehold on the disco market. The Bee Gees rule here, while on the charts bands like Wild-Cherry and Player have outstripped their black opposition. This is accurately reflected in a record like Saturday Night Fever which has developed a long way from its roots in soul music and become part of a white American commercial machine. It’s all here - the packaging, the sleek production, the hard sell, the predictability and the inevitable popularity of a top line commercial venture.
Artist: The Original Animals 
Album: Before We Were So Rudely Interrupted 
Record Label: Barn 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
It is perhaps appropriate at a time when . we are assailed by a seemingly endless proliferation of re-makes of mid-sixties chart toppers that this gem should happen along. This “Son of the Animals" outing arrives nearly 12 years after the original Animals splintered. A social get together resulted in the recording reunion of Eric Burdon, Alan Price, Hilton Valentine, Chas Chandler and John Steel. Nik Cohn called them the best British R&B group. Inarguable proof here as they work through the blues (“Just a Little Bit," “Please Send Me Someone to Love,” “As the Crow Flies”). Dylan’s “It’s All Over Now, Baby Blue” gets Burdon's dramatic treatment. Jimmy Cliff's “Many Rivers to Cross” suffers from a certain stiffness, but it’s the only less-than-convincing note. 
What is startling is that after the time lapse and only limited rehearsal, the Animals’ basic approach is unchanged. Emphasis is on Burdon’s singing and Price's keyboards, Hilton Valentine can be relied on to turn in a brief and tasty solo, but otherwise the guitar is part of the ever-solid rhythm section. 
There’s a “live” feel about the recording and Eric Burdon is in confident voice. An album that started as a joke get together for old friends is for me one of the least pretentious and most compelling records of the year. Recommended to those who understand why Leroy Gomez sucks.
Artist: Various 
Album: Guillotine
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templar
Guillotine was a ten-inch new wave compilation record in Britain; only in New Zealand is it a 12-inch LP with five extra tracks and one different track. That of course makes it a collectors’ item. 
The additional tracks are Roogalator’s “Love and the Single Girl”, the Gladiators' “Pocket Money", Magazine’s “My Mind Ain't So Open”, the Motors’ “Phoney Heaven” and two from XTC; “Dance Band" and “Hang On To the Night”. “Phoney Heaven” appeared on the Motors' album while “My Mind Ain’t So Open” and “Hang On To the Night” are both B-sides to singles released here. The rest of the additional tracks were unavailable for review. 
The Motors: "Phoney Heaven” was one of the debut album’s strongest tracks. “You Beat the Hell Outta Me” hasn’t been released here before and is funnier. The Motors aren't as good as Status Quo because they aren’t as boring.
Penetration: The lead vocalist sounds like Grace Slick on amphetamines. “Don’t Dictate” could be punk rock for secretaries. Ten points. 
The Table: “My bedroom is full of dead bodies/Doing the Standing Still”. Nearly redeemed with some frantic guitar play two minutes into the song. 
Avant Gardner: Moronic. 
Howard Devoto’s Magazine: Devoto was originally in the Buzz cocks; “Shot By Both Sides” deserves to be a hit of enormous proportions but never will be. "My Mind Ain’t So Open” is the B-side of that single; not nearly as good, more in the tradition of the Motors and XTC.
XTC: Ditto to “Hang On to the Night". “Statue of Liberty” is the better song because it’s more clever. 
Roky Erickson: Don’t know anything about him but “Bermuda” is good and also psychedelic. Mick Jones likes this one too. 
Poet and the Roots: Pseudo-reggae. Don’t need this. 
X-Ray Spex: "Oh Bondage Up Yours!” is Poly Styrene’s chant. Ignore her, little girls shouldn't be heard. 
Six out of ten is okay if you haven't already got the Motors, XTC and Magazine tracks. And you can cut into the vinyl with a sharp blade so that the stylus skips X-Ray Spex’ “Oh Bondage” and Avant Gardner’s "Strange Girl in Clothes”.
Artist: Waylon Jennings 
Album: The Best of Waylon Jennings 
Record Label: RCA. 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Waylon Jennings is one of the bad-men of C & W. Like collaborator and friend Willie Nelson, Jennings spent his youth learning and playing country styles, rising to eminence as a Nashville songwriting regular. Similarly like Nelson, Waylon Jennings became disenchanted with the levelling slickness of country capital style and broke ties with mother Nashville. The result was the so called "outlaw" country movement which turned its back upon the two dollar cigar and rhinestone suit image. As Jennings put it in his 1976 U.S. chart hit: 
Somebody told me when I came to Nashvjlle, 
Son you’ve finally got it made, 
Old Hank made it here, 
We’re all sure you will - 
But I don't think Hank done it this way. 
The Best of Waylon Jennings, an Australian RCA compilation, gives a fair indication of the direction that this singer and writer has preferred. The selection conveys the rugged, live feel that Jennings champions. Some tracks ("Good Hearted Woman", with Willie Nelson; and "Bob Wills is still the King") are concert recordings. But even the studio takes have a rawness and natural echo that give them the loose charm of basement recording. Listeners unfamiliar with Jennings may be particularly surprised by tougher than usual renditions of standards like "Suspicious Minds” and "Me and Bobby McGee". Jennings’ deep, bruised voice and his chunky arrangements put tired songs back into shape.
Just perhaps, with the vent of this newwave, back-to-basics fad, the timing of this release may mean that Waylon Jennings will be more acceptable to public taste here than ever before. 
Artist: Libby Titus 
Album: Libby Titus
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: William Dart
There was a time when Libby Titus was merely a small pocket of expressive esoterica in the vast panorama of American rock music. Lillian Roxon characterised her as "one third ingenue, one third socialite, one third hippie, with a head full of Medusa hair, like a thousand snakes". She made one album on Hot Biscuit label in the late sixties, and her appearances were subsequently limited to guest stints on albums by the likes of Martin Mull. 
A friendship with Robbie Robertson of The Band led to more self-confidence in her own writing, and with Eric Kaz she wrote that lovely song "Love Has No Pride” which was subsequently recorded by Bonnie Raitt, Linda Ronstadt and Tracy Nelson. 
Libby includes it on her first C.B.S. album, although after Bonnie Raitt’s recording of the song, all others seem unnecessary. Libby’s reading of Cole Porter’s "Miss Otis Regrets” somehow doesn’t click with me either, but it is always good to see people putting these songs before a new audience. 
One highlight is the lovely "Yellow Beach Umbrella" by the great writing team of Judy Henske and Craig Doerge (what ever happened to Judy Henske?). Another is "Darkness ’til Dawn" a Carly Simon song in which James Taylor and Carly Simon assist with backing vocals. Two new Libby Titus compositions "Fool That I Am” (co-written with Hirth Martinez) show her as an accomplished songwriter. 
I hope this album makes an impact. Libby Titus is a lady of musical discretion and, she could prove quite a force in the musical scene.