Artist: Various 
Album: Lethal Weapons 
Record Label: Suicide
Artist: Skyhooks 
Album: Guilty Until Proven Insane 
Record Label: Mushroom 
Artist: Little River Band 
Album: Sleeper Catcher 
Record Label: EMI
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
One of the most popular party jokes of last year, the leading candidate for a ‘‘who needs it” award, was Australian punk rock. If the idea itself wasn’t funny enough the Australian interpretation of it was: a Time/Newsweek idea of "punk” that led to one Australian punk rock group calling themselves the Hitler Youth Movement. Even Auckland’s Suburban Reptiles (with their own reputation for bad taste) turned down the suggestion to rename their lead singer Mona Blades. 
So nobody should have been surprised to hear of an Australian who had worked with Muff Winwood - Barrie Earl - forming an Australian record company with a roster of ‘‘new wave" bands called Suicide Records, and describing Suicide as “an alternative to boredom”. 
Suicide’s first release is a compilation album of Australian new wave, pressed on white vinyl and titled Lethal Weapons. Of the album’s seven groups, Teenage Radio Stars win extra points for their name but also sound best, like the Ramones with overtones of the Easybeats. They can be plain dumb as on “Wanna Be Ya Baby” or (ha!) intellectual - "(We’re) The Learned One". 
Wasted Daze re-work the Who’s "Magic Bus” under its new title, "Mona”, while the Boys Next Door do Nancy Sinatra’s hit, "These Boots Are Made For Walking”, and that’s okay too. X-Ray-Z do the only political song - "Three More Glorious Years” - but they don't sound like real subversives and these aren’t lethal weapons at all. Three points for audacity: this album will be a valuable artefact within five years, or it will still be a party joke. 
Skyhooks were included on Vertigo’s compilation, New Wave, but unlike Suicide’s aspirants they have a greatest hits collection, O.E. and originality to their credit. Roger Jarrett’s wild-eyed claim in 1975 that given two years in the States Skyhooks would be as big as Led Zep didn’t really seem that impossible then because the band itself had the persuasive confidence and ambition to be a rock’n'roll success story. I’m prepared to believe it was only bad marketing that stopped them from conquering America in their short stay. 
On Guilty Until Proven Insane there are evident changes in Skyhooks’ established style; most noticeably as a result of Bob Spencer replacing Red Symons as guitarist. The Aerosmith and Alice Cooper production team of Jack Douglas, Eddie Leonetti and Lee Decarlo has shaped a hard rock sound that dispenses with such throwaway singalongs as "Blue Jeans” and "All My Friends Are Getting Married”. "Women In Uniform” benefits most from this approach and would almost certainly have been a hit single if radio-land could have heard it through 18-inch speakers. 
Like the Rolling Stones, Skyhooks still feel something of an obligation to be outrageous but they remain as strikingly original as when they first began. 
The Little River Band’s founders perfected their synthesis of LA country-rock in a band called Mississippi, formed in 1974. As a vocal harmony group the Little River Band is most often compared to the Eagles but their style is, more correctly, a combination of the best and the worst of a genre that began with Buffalo Springfield. 
At best Little River Band are capable of songs like "Statue of Liberty”, “It’s A Long Way There” and "Help Is On Its Way”. But they also have an unerring ear for cliched lyrics (including the largest collection of “life on the road" songs I’ve ever heard) and they can be as bland as the group Chicago. 
Their greatest strength is their vocal harmonies but Sleeper Catcher (co-produced by American producer John Boylan) is an unfortunate attempt at a "serious” work; overorchestrated and too gushingly pleasant to be listened to comfortably. Only "So Many Paths" comes close to the material this group is best doing, although the song is almost destroyed by awkwardly matched allegorical lyrics. That aside, perhaps EMI need to be reminded that nobody listens to this sort of stuff during winter.
Artist: The Rolling Stones 
Album: Some Girls 
Record Label: Rolling Stones Records 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Let’s lay it on the line. If the Rolling Stones never made another record this one would be perfect to go out on. If the RCMP hang it on Keef they'll be dancing to this in Cell Block Number Nine. The best thing since maybe Let It Bleed. 
Culled from a total of 42 songs, the material is stro-o-ong. “Miss You’’ is a mid-tempo Stones instant classic. The sax of Mel Collins (ex-King Crimson) and the harp of Sugar Blue (said to play in the Paris Metro) add the sauce to one of the headiest brews from the Stones in a long time. Electric piano from lan McLagan (Woody’s old Faces compadre) and Charlie's no-frills drumming push this one to the limits. In a recent Rolling Stone interview Jagger indicates that somewhere a 12 minute version featuring Sugar Blue has been released. I’d love to hear it; he’s seething as the track fades. 
“When the Whip Comes Down” is one of the Stones’ most insistent pieces. Just a chorus driven into the ground. Meant to be about a gay garbage collector. Can’t decipher the lyric. Unrelenting. 
The Temptations’ “Just My Imagination Running Away with Me” is given a similar treatment to “Ain't Too Proud to Beg” on It's Only Rock and Roll. Jagger suggests it’s just an English band tuning up on a three chord song. He’s too modest by half. 
“Some Girls” is more than a passing nod in Dylan's direction, right to the “lethal dose” quote, The phrasing is straight out of Blonde on Blonde, and the lyrics seem to refer to recent Malibu marital follies as much as the Jagger soap opera. More great harp on this one. 
“Lies”, which closes Side One, is a Stones party song, four to the bar and a chanting chorus, more a pulse than a tune. 
Side Two opens with Mick Jagger reincarnating Gram Parsons (sort of) with “Far Away Eyes”. Sunday morning in Bakersfield, gospel radio and truckdrivin’ cafes. The best country music the Stones have done. Teardrop steel guitar from Woody. 
“Respectable” is the Stones ripping the joint. Frantic pace, jeering vocals, a wall of guitars. 
Then comes the oddity of the album. Keith Richards’ “Before They Make Me Run.” Is this Keith saying goodbye? "I’m gonna find my way to Heaven/’cause I did my time in Hell." Apparently Keith’s last complete song since "Happy”, Keith's vocals are as poignant as they were on the more lyrical "You Got the Silver” from Let It Bleed. A disturbing song, more desperate than defiant. 
Ringing guitars evoke Otis Redding and Wilson Pickett in "Beast of Burden", perhaps the Stones’ best soul strut since “That’s How Strong My Love Is." 
"Shattered” is pure New York in a New York album (despite its Paris recording). Stuttering jive vocals, Sha-dooby back-up, a tight rhythm groove, occasionally shattered by squalling guitar. 
This album is a total success. Every song is potent and the parts sum up to a greater whole. As Jagger said: “People expect a lot more of us than they do everybody else. 
"I think it’s a good album and I’m not going to be too modest about it. I think it has a continuity in the characterisations. It doesn’t have the holes, it’s a bit better than the others.” 
Some Girls is a highpoint for the Stones. The threat of Keith's court case still hangs over the band. Did that uncertainty draw from them this superlative performance? What value surmise? This is superb. Perma styled with elasticized inner pockets.
Artist: Bob Dylan 
Album: Street Legal 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
A notable American magazine recently published an essay on the politics of fame. Its author discussed the inadequate machinery the modern world has for disposing of its celebrity overstayers. Amongst those he supposed the public to feel uneasy over, the name Bob Dylan was prominent. 
Dylan, I’m sure won’t lose any sleep over the comment, but it does illustrate that blended with other of his talents, Dylan has a genius for remaining contentious. The man has to be a P.R. wonder who, sixteen years and some twenty albums after his first record contract, can still arouse anticipation over a new release. The ‘has - he - still - got - what - it - takes' speculation surrounding all he attempts is an ironic headstart many of. his contemporaries must envy. 
After the recent world tour of which we were privileged to catch a segment, appetites were particularly whetted for the recording which has taken the title Street Legal. Dylan has worked of late at assembling and maintaining a regular band. The advantages were manifest at his concert here. The combination he brought were a rehearsed, talented and dynamic unit. Musicians like Steve Douglas, rock and roll sax-man from way back, Bobbye Hall who is an extraordinary percussionist, gave more zest to the performance than most of us had dared hope for. 
Street Legal uses the basis of the band which came to N.Z. - Hall, Douglas, David Mansfield, Steven Soles and Dylan’s three lady back-up singers, being of particular value. Theirs is a major contribution towards the sound of the album. The months spent together re-arranging old songs, rehearsing and touring have paid dividends. The first impression of Street Legal, before any evaluation of Dylan’s new songs, is of the coherent, simple, yet inventive nature of the arrangements. To my mind Street Legal far outshines the rather rambling Desire in this respect, and may even have the edge on portions of Blood on the Tracks where backings do not always match song quality. 
The songs to which this treatment is given on Street Legal need more cautious appraisal. Dylan himself, in an interview given in Australia, maintains that his style has established boundaries for itself over the years. Asked about where his work might move in the future he replied that it is in “the same old place it’s always been ... It won't get any more complicated or simple than it is.” This does not mean that Dylan has exhausted himself of new ideas or of his experimental urge, but suggests that he will continue to utilise the same raw materials. 
Street Legal is a record which illustrates the point. It is, in several ways, a catalogue of Bob Dylan’s song writing characteristics, the good and the bad. 
Unfortunately there are no songs to lyrically match the best he has done in the 70s - no “Tangled Up In Blue's’’ or “Idiot Winds” none to match the sophisticated love songs on under-rated Planet Waves. Dylan does nevertheless produce effective images. “Baby Stop Crying", opens with the brief statement: 
You've been down to the bottom with a bad man babe 
But you're back to where you belong. 
Simple it is, yet with an underlying strong melody, it's the sort of song that in the good old days might have become a soul standard. 
A gutsy sax break and the girly back-ups contribute to the impression. 
The winners on Street Legal are all similarly direct. “True Love Tends to Forget” and “We Better Talk This Over" are more genuinely pop songs than any since “Knocking on Heaven’s Door”. In them rests the strength of the release. 
I am less taken with the one or two numbers which are residue from surrealist - mystic - mumbojumbo days. In my humble opinion Dylan has always worn the garb of a good songwriter more comfortably than the robes of a latter day Ezekiel. The one opus on Street Legal, a thing by the name of "No Time to Think”, wanders through vaguely metaphysical metaphors for eight minutes, stopping in the middle of each verse for a random sequence of abstract nouns. It sits uncomfortably with the rest of the material. 
However, these are small gripes for I'm easily won over to an album which sounds so good. Douglas's understated saxophone style, a lovely mid sixties organ sound, soul backing vocals - of such things enjoyable records are made. 
Despite our cynical essayist, I’m happy to see Bob Dylan around a while yet.
Artist: Magazine
Album: Real Life
Record Label: Virgin Records 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Magazine is a five piece British band lead by a young Mancunian (native of Manchester, twit!) named Howard Devoto. 
He is arrogant, reclusive, even slightly paranoid. He also exudes a personal magnetism exceeded only by the likes of Bowie. 
To top it all, he sings like he could spit in your face, writes songs that grip you by the throat, fronts a screaming bitch of a band, and has produced a debut platter that has to stand alongside the first Roxy Music album as a milestone in British rock. 
Elvis Costello doesn’t have the patent on Uneasy Listening. Devoto will have you nervously glancing over your shoulder. 
"Shot by Both Sides" already has classic status, with a hookline that sticks like a leech and the band playing with the impact of a knife to the jugular. 
This, and one of the album’s other strongest numbers, “The Light Pours Out of Me", was co-written with Pete Shelley of the Buzzcocks, with whom Devoto sang for a short time. 
Lyrically, Devoto seems determined to remain an enigma. Although only in his twenties he seems already to have been through his private hell. He had his scars, but he is not about to bare them. 
He acknowledges debts to Roxy Music and Cockney Rebel, but fulfills promises made and not kept by both. At the same time Devoto makes some promises of his own which hold out well for the future. Let’s hope he can sustain this initial creative burst. 
Real Life will not make you smile or dance. It will simply stun you. 
Artist: Cheap Trick 
Album: In Color 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
In Color is Cheap Trick’s second album, released in most other parts of the Western World some time in 1977. The first album is still currently unavailable and there’s now a third in existence so we’ll keep our fingers crossed. In fact we ought to keep everything crossed that’s crossable because this is an extra-good elpee and we need more of the same. 
Cheap Trick are one of the finest American bands extant. They carry the banner so courageously waved in the last few years by bands like the brilliant Big Star, Blue Ash and other commercially unsuccessful outfits who put a lot of stock in good writing and vocals, aggressive and inventive playing, and 100% magnetic hooks. For some reason they just don’t play a lot of that stuff on the radio in this merry old decade. But you should buy this record ’cause Cheap Trick have got it all, the complete rock/pop band. 
Hints of The Beatles can be detected but they’re used to the very best effect, and who better to hint at anyway. And what do they look like? . . . well, there’s a couple of yer standard rockstar pin-ups and a couple of nutters. They’ve got it all covered. 
Artist: Gerry Rafferty 
Album: City to City 
Record Label: United Artists 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
With this album Gerry Rafferty’s name is becoming big enough to send people out scouring bargain bins for his earlier work, and while City to City is a considerable distance from the first recordings, elements of his Scottish folk background are still retained in the sound. All to the good. The use of, say, fiddle or accordion as lead instrument is symptomatic of the album’s engaging freshness. 
The arrangements, for example, though straightforward, are imaginative in their simplicity: from the churning ‘train-song’ harmonica on the title track to pure vocal harmonies and discreet moog on "Whatever’s Written In Your Heart”. 
The lyrics are tempered by a tough realism but, although Rafferty has a clean, clear voice, his words tend to be subsumed by the lovely melodies. Side One alone contains four sure-fire hit singles; Side Two is almost as good. 
My one complaint is that the album’s production tends to blend all instruments into one smooth texture. To this listener at least, a clearer contrast of tone and timbre would have afforded more enjoyment. As it is the tracks somewhat suffer from overall ‘sameness’. 
But, gripes aside, it's a fine set which ably maintains the standard of the single. City to City is worth the fare. 
Artist: 801 
Album: 801 Live 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Any Citizen Band devotees in the audience will have noticed that they do funny things to “You Really Got Me” by the Kinks. This record is of interest to those who might like to be able to shout out witty things while they are playing it. Note for note, their version appears on Side Two of 801 Live. 
Aside from that I guess this record will appeal to everybody, and perhaps nobody very much. Those who count themselves Phil Manzanera fans will probably prefer the unadulterated thing on his solo and studio albums, those who are Enophiles will tend to stick to his records, which leaves this one somewhat in limbo. 
It serves as an adequate introduction to the work of the two it even contains what might be called their respective ‘greatest hits’, “Diamond Head" and “Baby’s On Fire”. At the same time, it is hardly a collaborative effort, featuring only one track credited to the two of them, and it does neither of them full justice. 
With the age of most of the material, and the two covers (the Beatles' "Tomorrow Never Knows” is the other) those wanting to ascertain what the two of them are really all about would be better advised to check their individual outputs. 
Artist: Iggy Pop and James Williamson 
Album: Kill City 
Record Label: Radar 
Artist: Iggy Pop 
Album: TV Eye - 1977 Live
Record Label: RCA
Reviewed By: George Kay
Contrary to popular opinion Iggy’s long awaited Kill City is not a collection of outtakes culled from the Raw Power sessions, but a 1975 Williamson arranged bid by Iggy to get back into the world after heavy emotional problems. Williamson has finally managed to unleash the album via Bomp’s Greg Shaw.
If you’re expecting Kill City to be the son of Raw Power then forget it as it is easily Iggy’s most conventional and mellow proposition ever. But it’s great, especially smooth-honed tightly structured classic Flamin’ Groovies/ Stones rock ’n’ roll of the first side. Even if he has nicked Dylan’s intro to "Knocking on Heaven’s Door” on "I Got Nothin’ ”. “Sell Your Love” borders on the unbelievable, a superbly sensitive melody complemented by some great sax lines from John Harden. Side Two is less impressive mainly because the closing track, “Master Charge” seems little more than a lengthy instrumental filler, but the vintage rock formula-feel of “Consolation Prizes” and the harmonica spun "Lucky Monkeys” more than compensates. 
In many ways Kill City can be seen as a bridge between his Raw Power days and his present Idiot/Life phase. But whatever way you want to look at it, what you have here is a damned fine album.
On the other hand we have TV Eye, the story of a good album that should have been great. The first ever legitimate live Iggy recording and he bows out of the spontaneous audience baiting that made the second side of Metallic KO such a great performance. In fact there is no evidence of his renowned cut and thrust at all on TV Eye. 
Taken from three spearate concerts with the Sales brothers as his rhythm section and Bowie, Scott Thurston, Ricky Gardiner and Stacey Heydon sharing credits, Iggy seems to have been after the perfect live sound to the detriment of the feel of an on-the-spot adrenalin-rushing atmosphere that a great live record can capture. Five of the eight songs are bludgeoning renditions with all the menace and power that you dreamed they should have, but each song is in isolation, encapsulated through lack of continuity in Iggy’s and Bowie’s production and mixing. There’s none of the sheer magic for example that’s present on Parkerilla when "Tear Your Playhouse Down” slides into “Don’t Ask Me No Questions” or when Williamson himself crashes into “Louie Louie” on Metallic KO. That’s what I expect from top-notch live albums. 
TV Eye then is cold-cut and clean. For nine out of ten rock bands this would be the ultimate live album, but for rock’s number one performer we have a case here of underachievement. 
Artist: Todd Rundgren
Album: Hermit of Mink Hollow
Record Label: Bearsville 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
There is a school of thought that maintains that Todd Rundgren fried his brains completely about three or four years ago. The adherents to this theory point to the various Utopia debacles as pretty convincing evidence. It certainly seemed that some major psychic or chemical damage must have intervened to turn Something/Anything into the cosmic debris of Another Live. 
Hermit of Mink Hollow is going to come as something of a shock to those theorists. While it does not capture the magic moments of Something/Anything, it ranks with others like A Wizard/A True Star. It certainly shows that Rundgren’s voice, arranging skills and ear for a classic tune were not dependent on those brain cells which have gone west these last few years. 
The single, “Can We Still Be Friends” is the standout, but others like “Fade Away” are good enough to set your mind at rest. The Wizard is doing very nicely in Mink Hollow, and the popular song is in good hands. 
Artist: Joe Walsh 
Album: “But Seriously Folks ..”
Record Label: ElectralAsylum 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
We all hoped that when Joe Walsh joined the Eagles he’d pack some beef into those western wimps. So far “Life In The Fast Lane” provides scant evidence. But Walsh is hardly a prolific writer; it’s been four years since his last set of new material the marvellous So What and now we get a mere six songs plus one “developed-in-the-studio” instrumental.
Although only drummer Vitale remains of the former musicians - some from the live album also feature here - his influence is vital in retaining the Walsh sound. Most numbers are firmly cast in the ‘medium-slow/heavy’ mold of classics like “County Fair” and while Walsh may still play the same guitar licks, he and Vitale remain the one rhythm combination I know which can plod without becoming elephantine. 
If the similarities to So What provide some initial disappointment because there’s nothing here which quite reaches the peaks of that album, there’s no blunder to compare to synthesized Ravel either. But Seriously Folks ... the music, while not great, is certainly consistently good (and occasionally enhanced by shrewd lyrics.) 
One fear however. This is Joe's least raging set yet. Could the Eagles be getting to him? 
Artist: Various
Album: FM
Record Label: MCA 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
FM is a double album of songs selected from the myriad of tunes that form the soundtrack accompaniment to the razzle dazzle action of the movie of the same name. 
As with American Graffiti most of the soundtrack songs are represented by often little more than a chorus or so to complement the visuals. Unlike American Graffiti the album is not a complete and expanded soundtrack. The artists and songs selected here appear to be the most saleable of those used in the film. In other words, by and large they’re big hits. 
But even while the album looks like a swept up version of those “twenty golden greats of the past fortnight” records that keep cropping up on the tube, it must be stressed that it does work as an album. Songs have been juxtaposed intelligently to ensure a coherent flow. 
Steely Dan wrote and perform the title song and it may be the best thing on the record. Other artists include Bob Seger, Steve Miller, Foreigner, Eagles, Boz Scaggs, Linda Ronstadt and Jimmy Buffett (the latter two perform live in the movie). 
Artist: The Cars 
Album: The Cars
Record Label: Elektra 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
The Cars could be one of the more promising new groups - or they could be a flash in the pan. A group out of Boston they have put together a rich first album. So did Nils Lofgren, one of my favourite newcomers, who, alas, failed to do much afterwards. 
The Cars have a similar punky stance to Lofgren, with strong overtones of Roxy Music in their vocal phrasing and the insinuating use of synthesiser. 
The strong pulse of Richard Ocasek's songs has been boosted by the production of Roy Thomas Baker, who displays the dramatic style he used with Queen. Perhaps there’s a little too much of the Baker aural histrionics on occasion (phased drums can be a bit wearisome), but there’s no denying the edgy atmosphere of the music. There’s a good helping of muscular basslines, hand claps and hooks and a great juke box song, “My Best Friend’s Girl.” 
It’s a night driving sound, maybe slightly sinister, an American nightscape. 
Artist: The Stranglers
Album: Black and White 
Record Label: United Artists
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
This record depresses me beyond mention. 
After two excellent albums that set British rock on its bum, who would have thought the Stranglers could blow it so easily? 
The opening track, “Tank”, says it all. Two minutes and 54 seconds of Stranglers mayhem it may be, but the tune is so close to “Grip” and “Dagenham Dave” it’s embarrassing. 
The only sparks of originality come from the slightly reggae-fied "Nice N’ Sleazy” and the curious “Outside Tokyo”, which is taken at waltz time and is the most subdued number the band has recorded. The rest is mere filler. 
Lyrically, things seem to have gone to pot as well. Most of the words seem to be concerned with the city as a disaster area after someone has dropped The Big One. That's the only conclusion I could reach after half a dozen listenings. Obscure is putting it mildly. 
About the only thing that survives unscathed is the rhythm section, still as tight as an iron fist, but that’s little compensation and Jean Jacques Burnel’s grinding fuzztone bass is starting to grate on the nerves. 
I never thought the Stranglers would bore me. This album smacks of either a rush job or a lack of ideas. I really do hope it's the former, as to see such a band sink without a trace would be a tragedy. 
Get a grip on yourselves, lads. 
Artist: Various
Album: Montreux Summit 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: John Dix
The six tunes on this double album, recorded on the final night at last year’s Montreux Festival, can be placed into two camps - full ensemble and combo. The ensemble numbers - “Montreux Summit”, “Blues March”, “Andromeda” - suffer from hurriedly written, arranged and rehearsed scores; and at times, due to differing styles, there are clashes between soloist and rhythm section. Still, it was more a jam than a finely rehearsed gig, so these numbers are merely vehicles for the thirty-odd musicians to demonstrate their improvising prowess and, indeed, there are some fine individual performances here. 
Alphonso Johnson’s "Bahama Mama", Dexter Gordon’? "Bananas” and Stan Getz’s “Infant Eyes” all benefit from the freedom of the smaller unit (septet, sextet and quartet respectively). 
Tenormen Gordon and Getz are already, of course, jazz giants. 
Gordon solos on all the ensemble numbers but it’s only here on his own composition that he really proves what a truly magnificent musician he is. 
Getz’s lyrical rendition of the Wayne Shorter ballad is an exceptionally inspiring performance. With only a brief interlude from pianist Bob James, Getz’s inimitable breathy tones make this the highlight of the set. 
Despite its shortcomings, it's an interesting album. With too many soloists to list here, Billy Cobham, premier skinsman, deserves a special mention for his stamina alone. The album is for the converted rather than the casual fan; rock fans wanting to supplement their record collection with some jazz would be advised to seek out the artistes’ individual works.
Artist: The Motors 
Album: Approved by the Motors 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
The Motors appear to have abandoned (on record, at least) their tendency toward the heavy metal end of the New Wave spectrum. Their new album is pure pop, in the sense that the Beatles, the Hollies, the Foundations and Edison Lighthouse were pop. Those names aren’t chosen randomly; they’re among the more pronounced influences on the album. 
The record starts strongly with the single "Airport.” Not a guitar in sight here. All keyboards. Somewhere between the Beatles and 10cc. "Mamma Rock ’n’ Roller” is a John Lennon-ish cruncher. The other songs on Side One are a varied lot, ranging from "Forget About You” (a crib from an old Edison Lighthouse hit), the monotonic "You Beat the Hell Outta Me” (more like the old Motors), and, perhaps the most interesting cut, "Do You Mind,” with its sadistic lyric (puts one vaguely in mind of lan Dury, and that’s no bad thing). 
However, the rest of the album seems sluggish, heavily chorded rockers and windy ballads. The Motors are not without skill, but eclecticism in itself does not pre-determine excellence. 
Artist: Alessi 
Album: All For a Reason 
Record Label: A & M 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
It’s clear that Alessi hold a special key. If you have a heart-felt response to that certain vein of pure pop that these guys mine then, at some point in every one of their best songs, you’ll feel the key turn. 
B.B. is a clue to Alessi. They were once in a band called Barnaby Bye, their most apparent influence is the Beach Boys, their names are Billy and Bobby, and I’m picking that they’ll soon be in the big bucks. 
Alessi’s harmonies sparkle like wired-up Coke and their melodies seep in through your nerve ends. Their teen angst themes sit comfortably alongside more universal ones that somehow also make it, partly because the settings are so damn charming that the word "kitsch” is almost correct but certainly irrelevant.
The Alessi debut was among my most played LPs of last year, this second album All For A Reason is in some respects more ambitious, featuring fashionable (but good) sidemen like Steve Gadd. But it’s ultimately less satisfying, with a few highs just as high but scarcer than on the first. Check Alessi out if it sounds like your cuppa ... no I just changed my mind, these guys are too handsome, forget’em. 