Artist: Billy Joel
Album: The Stranger
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
It isn't all fun and games being an entertainer you know. And it isn't made any easier by the natural wariness people have of someone who understands enough about his position as entertainer to write of his first hit song: 
It was a beautiful song 
But it ran too long, 
If you're gonna have a hit 
You gotta make it fit,_ So they cut it down to 3.05 .. . 
Nobody else even openly mentions artistic compromise within the music business, nobody else has made a hit single out of it. But Joel knows just a bit too much about the pop star business and still lacks the self-confidence not to let that knowledge influence his songwriting. After all, he can writing hit singles, good hit singles like "The Entertainer" and "Piano Man", like this album's "Just the Way You Are”. 
Anyone who has listened to commercial radio for more than five minutes in the last two years will tell you that love songs still top the charts, whether it’s the right time of the night, because nobody does it better or because it makes my brown eyes blue. "Just the Way You Are" is, well, nice and, yes, it is romantic. A love song for the depression years:
I wouldn't leave you in times of trouble, 
We never could have come this far, 
I took the good times, I'll take the bad times, 
I'll take you just the way you are . . . 
There are some nice touches to The Stranger-, the "ack-ack-ack" which Joel adds to the words "Cadillac" and "heart attack" to reinforce the "keeping up with the Jones's" storyline in "Movin' Out", saxophonist Richard Cannata’s able backing - now characteristic of Joel's songs. And the opening to the title track, a movie theme, the hero wandering the streets after learning that his girl has been killed by some no-good hoods, the soundtrack to a Bogart movie. 
Billy Joel always wanted to be a concert pianist with a full orchestra behind him - listen to “New York State of Mind” and "Say Goodbye to Hollywood" on his previous album, Turnstiles. But songs like "Captain Jack”, on the Piano Man album, "Miami 2017" and "I’ve Loved These Days" prove that he is among rock's best lyricists: 
... we can only go so far 
On caviar and cabernet, 
We drown our doubts in dry champagne 
And soothe our souls with fine cocaine. 
It's often a narrow line between what’s art and what isn’t, what's schmaltz and what isn’t and most of The Stranger oversteps the limit. Turnstiles is to date the most perfect marriage between Joel’s two personas; that of the entertainer and of the embittered cynic who is cocksure enough to say what he thinks. 
Nearly always the artist loses some if not all his distinctive appeal in the transition from cult hero to pop star. But there are also the practical realities of the situation: even Johnny Rotten has to eat and Billy Joel knows it. The Stranger may be his answer. But I prefer to believe that he still intends making his masterpiece, and that this album is merely a clever business move to ensure that everyone will be listening when he does.
Artist: Burning Spear 
Album: Live 
Record Label: Island
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
In a career spanning five years, Burning Spear have established a reputation in the reggae recording field that is, to say the least, enviable. 
Their potent, driving sound, usually aided by ace producer Jack Ruby, has built them a solid following among “roots" reggae lovers, and now looks set to break the sound internationally. 
Winston Rodney, always the heart and soul of the vocal trio, was left on his own to record the latest studio release, Dry and Heavy , and this new, live offering. 
The earlier albums, Marcus Garvey and Man In The Hills have achieved classic status, and little wonder. 
Rodney, at 29, has a voice and lyrical depth of a man twice his age. His intensity of feeling is etched into every groove. He can turn the word "no" into a fervent cry of entreaty or a shout of defiance. 
He embodies all the power and warmth that is the root of reggae. 
Now that Rodney is solo, Island Records seem intent on turning him into the sort of celebrity that Bob Marley has become.
If it works, it will be an admirable achievement, simply for getting a wider audience interested in Burning Spear's music. But the task may not be as easy as it was with Marley.
Rodney is a rural Jamaican, not a Kingston man. His music is not so easily accessible. Spear needs time to appreciate, but the effort is well rewarded.
Live shows Rodney’s strengths and weaknesses. Without the counterpoint singing of Rupert Willington and Delroy Hines, Rodney sounds sparser than ever, and the strength of the hook lines of the songs is sometimes lost. This is most apparent on the live version of "Man In The Hills". 
That reservation aside, this album is spontaneous combustion. Recorded in London last October, it features the best of Jamaica's session men, whose empathy with Rodney and each other shines throughout. 
The audience is ectatic and Winston Rodney is triumphant. 
Not perhaps an ideal introduction to Burning Spear, listen to Man In The Hills first, to get the feel. Then don’t hesitate to buy.
Artist: Graham Parker and the Rumour
Album: Stick to Me
Record Label: Vertigo 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Amongst the milling, the noise, the hype, the push and the blarney of New Wave rock and roll, Graham Parker and the Rumour stand a figurative ten feet tall. 
The first coming of Parker, in reality a diminutive fellow with mean sunglasses and a ferret-faced appearance, was deceptive. He seemed interesting, but not devastating. The first album, Howling Wind, aroused admiration, yet also led listeners into a count-the-influences game. There were Jagger, Springsteen, recent Bob Dylan all lurking beneath the surface of a well compiled rhythm and blues set. 
But Heat Treatment (the first Parker record released in N.Z.) reiterated two points that might otherwise have gone unnoticed: the first being that Parker and his band were capable of generating a real gusto that was, for all its enthusiasm, rhythmically tight, the second being that Parker could write very, very, strong songs. 
Given the promise of its predecessors, Stick to Me is an album of which much has been expected. On it stands the long term impact of its creator, the importance of Parker as an innovative force. For me at least Stick to Me stamps Parker indelibly into the musical catalogue for the 1970s. 
Drawing on the well established reserves of rock and roll, themes of sex, the streets, drugs and violence, Parker and the Rumour are licking the entrenched competition on its own ground. Songs like "Stick to Me" and “Playhouse" are raunchier, more vital, more aggressive than anything the Stones have done for years. To date there is no sign of Parker's creative growth wilting. 
However, more than part of this performer's success must be credited beyond Parker to his band. Constructed from the bones of the disbanded Brinsley Schwarz ensemble, the Rumour have given their frontman a great headstart. They have achieved a professional polish that never obscures the energy of enthusiastic performance and participation. On Stick to Me the playing is faster, more closely packed, with fewer holes than ever before. Credit for this must also go to producer Nick Lowe who, is re-investing British rock with the percussive, middle register quality of the beat sound. 
Combined with The Rumour Graham Parker has now created a style that owes a bit to many people, but is original and important enough not to have to acknowledge debts. Stick to Me has its failings - I eye the New York theatricality of "Heat in Harlem" and "The New York Shuffle" with suspicion. It seems a little too remote from the band’s origins to be carried comfortably. But the consolidation of a sound that is Graham Parker, and Graham Parker alone is welcome. Even if you don’t like it, it's not about to go away in a hurry.
Artist: The Rumour 
Album: Max 
Record Label: Vertigo 
Reviewed By: Alistair Dougal
By now you shouldn't need to be told who the Rumour are or where they come from. But the question remains - on this, their first solo outing, can the backing group cut it without the main man out front? 
Max proves they can. Several critics have made much of the similarities between the Rumour’s sound and that of The Band. But it’s worth pointing out that much of the resemblance is probably due as much to shared musical heritage as to any direct copping of licks. Nonetheless the Rumour’s vocal harmonies and Bob Andrews’ organ parts are undoubtedly more directly derivative. 
Wisely, the Rumour’s singers - Bob Andrews and Martin Belmont, I believe - have decided to head for a vocal approach that is emotive rather than technically accurate. While this approach occasionally exposes them straining for the notes, it has the advantage of making the singing affecting rather than bland as is often true of singers with limited ability. 
On the question of songs, the Rumour have also wisely added to their own material with Nick Lowe's stand-out opening track "Mess with Love” plus the old Tamla stomper "I Wanna Make Her Love Me" and an uptempo version of Duke Ellington's "Do Nothing Till You Hear From Me". Their own material, while it lacks the instant familiarity that is the feature of so many of Graham Parker’s songs, more than makes up for this with a depth in the arrangements that slowly reveals buried melodic fragments.
The sure footed choice of songs and use of arrangements means Side One moves with style from the rollicking "Mess With Love" through to the Rumour at their most Band-like on the plaintive "Airplane Tonight". And even the inclusion of two weak tracks in the middle of Side Two only marginally detracts from this impact. 
Not only does the best of Max rival the Band's more recent output, but its best stands effortlessly besides Graham Parker’s work. Nuff said.
Artist: George Benson 
Album: Weekend in L.A. 
Record Label: Warner Bros 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Any artist who had found a musical formula that increased his record sales by a virtual hundred-fold, and didn’t stick to it on subsequent albums, would have to be either a fool or Bob Dylan. George Benson is neither and his new, 'live' double-album Weekend in LA. follows the same pattern as his gigantic Breezin'.
First and foremost there’s the instrumentals: those briskly-paced, smoothly-flowing slices of funk that Benson and his group seem to play so effortlessly, (plus the obligatory slow piece for balance). The band is the same as on Breezin' and its successor In Flight, so there’s no new styles to disrupt the pattern. Yet this is a superb bunch of musicians and well worth rehearing, not just ensemble but as individuals. Benson, of course, is required listening for anyone interested in electric guitar, but so is Upchurch for his rhythm work. In fact the playing of all concerned is quite exemplary. Their sound is denigrated by some people as merely hip dinner music, and occasionally, maybe, it so descends as on Breezin's "Lady" but it is nearly always a great deal more than that, and rewards closer attention. There are ample opportunities for this on Weekend in LA. 
Then there are the vocal numbers. Benson's voice lacks the brilliance and originality of his guitar work, but his huge hit with “This Masquerade" provided much of the sales impetus for Breezin’ , and so, assured by popular success, he has here increased his vocal performances to almost half the album. All are in the same, tested, ballad mould and, again, all are shrewdly chosen from well-known but currently neglected material. There is even another Leon Russell composition. They are sung very competently, although "On Broadway” is too long for the song’s own good, and the Schifrin theme loses much of its original lilt. The vocal numbers are basically middle-of-the-road pop with funky backing owing much in conception to the Donny Hathaway Live L.P. 
Thankfully, Weekend in LA. has avoided nearly all the pitfalls of live albums: the sound is excellent, the music never falters, there are no spoken intros or crowd cajoling, and audience response, while enthusiastic, is never intrusive.
What you have then is an admirably executed continuation of the Breezin’ legacy, may be carefully tailored, almost easylistening at times, but it’s also very musical. George Benson has become to jazz what Fleetwood Mac is to rock, but is that bad? As a jazz guitarist friend of mine said after hearing Weekend in LA. “It’s nothing new but it’s bloody good.”
Artist: Elvis Costello 
Album: My Aim Is True 
Record Label: Stiff 
Reviewed By: John Malloy
He looks like Buddy Holly and he plays guitar like Hank Marvin. If you don’t know who Hank Marvin is, go ask your mother. From the cover to the tunes to the drum sound, this is a sixties album. And it’s all about guilt and revenge. That's what Elvis says anyway
Well I used to be disgusted 
But now I try to be amused . . . 
It makes a peculiar sort of sense to have the antidote to seventies much couched in the musical vernacular of the early sixties. 
But Elvis is no reactionary. A current of anger runs through most of the record, but it is a personal anger, not directed at any scapegoat. "Less Than Zero", the single that resulted | from a TV documentary on Oswald Mosely, the British Nazi, hides strong feelings beneath a smooth sixties beat feel. 
A pistol was still smoking , a man lay on the floor 
Mr Oswald said he had an understanding with the law . . . 
And he follows that with a classic teenage song called "Mystery Dance”. But he is never far from revenge and guilt, with songs like "Sneaky Feelings”, "Pay It Back”, and the brilliant "I’m Not Angry". 
This is a bloody good little record. At the moment it’s right up there with Mink de Ville at the top of my personal playlist. It's L accessible and it grows on you, and like the Mink de Ville set, it’s got a stack of good songs. Elvis has got something to say.
It is easy to see how so many record companies turned Mr Costello down before he was signed by Stiff. He’s too different. He’s not safe. He might lose money. 
But I doubt it. Judging by the airplay and the press he's getting, he can’t go far wrong. And with nutters like Elvis around, there’s hope for the business yet.
Artist: Dolly Parton 
Album: Here You Come Again 
Record Label: RCA
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
It doesn’t seem so long ago that I was reviewing the Dolly Parton record that was intended to launch the little lady into widespread popularity. Judging by the rapidity of this new release the campaign has been geared up a notch. 
Projected sales of the latest album seem to be based upon two things: the recent success of the catchy title single and the super glossy packaging which features our buxom: star luring customers with several poses, all of which include a red and white checked blouse filled by the renowned wonder-bust. 
The real question is does the record offer much more than a hit single and a flashy cover? 
Thankfully the answer has to be “yes”, but we are forced to admit that less hasty product might have proferred still more acceptable content. On the positive side of the ledger are a Bobby Goldsboro ballad called "The Cowgirl and the Dandy”, an excellent rendition of a number called "Baby Come out Tonight” and two good Parton originals "Two Doors Down’’ and “It’s All Wrong but it’s All Right”. On the debit side is the sad fact that there are only four Dolly Parton songs actually on the album and of these one “Me and Little Andy" is a piece of twee rubbish. With all the good will in the world for Southern sentiment one" still has to call it mawkish nonsense.
Dolly Parton has never been one to spend much time on a record, but if pressure of output leaves her short on own material then she just might be working too fast. Parton’s talents are as evident here as they are anywhere - the singing is in places magnificent, the backing proficient and tasteful - but with just a few months between releases she is obviously run a bit thin. Mind you, almost as if having one hand tied behind her back she still wallops Linda Ronstadt as a popular country performer.
Artist: Phil Manzanera 
Album: Listen Now
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: Terrence Hogan
The arrival of this album has been heralded for me personally by the almost unbridled enthusiasm of some friends who have had access to an advance copy. My own anticipation had been keen enough - the 801 Live album from '76 includes many of the same musicans that are found on Listen Now, and that remains one of my favourite albums of recent years. A powerful, creative and well programmed live album of a sort quite rare in rock music. 
As a band 801 is a little like Steely Dan in concept. It comprises in this instance a single central figure, Manzanera, who at appropriate times for either live appearances or studio work, surrounds himself with a carefully chosen group of musicians. This time the roundup includes Simon Phillips, Dave Mattacks, Eno and Split Enz’s own Rayner and Finn. 
Listen Now has none of the blazing rock ‘n’ roll or inspired cover versions of the live LP but it does have considerable virtues of its own, and they lie in a seemingly unlikely area for a musician like Manzanera. 
Unlikely that is until you look at the fine print of the well detailed album credits. There’s a very adept mainstream sophisto-pop element that infuses even its most complex arrangements and jazz fusion forays. I think the clue to the comparatively large commercial success this record might well enjoy lies under its progressive veneer where there lurks a glossy but very intelligent and attractive pop-ness. This is a catchy record. 
The influence of the unique and brilliant Eno is still there to be heard, but it’s balanced by the more conventional talents of ex-10ccs Godley and Creme, and it’s towards the better work of that once excellent band that the music on Listen Now tends to lean. 
The dispassionate vocals of Simon Ainsley together with the nylon tracheae of Messrs G. & C. give the singing an uninvolved coolness that may or may not be a barrier for some listeners. This is compensated for by some effective arranging and a sense of pop/rock dynamics, fashionably slowed and numbed, that again can be traced back to 10cc. 
Although not consistently to the fore, Manzanera's guitar sounds as bracing as ever and the songs, composed largely by Manzanera and bassist MacCormick are clever and interesting if not especially stimulating lyrically. 
Listen Now is another in a long list of fine albums that Manzanera has been associated with, and despite early doubts, due I’m sure to reasonably high expectations, I’m getting to like it more each time. I can’t honestly see it in the same league as 801 Live or Eno s Taking Tiger Mountain for example, but I unreservedly recommend it as worthy of investigation and effort. 
Artist: 10cc 
Album: Live and Let Live 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Mother and I were making chutney as I gave this latest, double live offering, a spin. 
We wept unashamedly as we sliced the onions to Eric Stewart’s bitter-sweet, heart-wrenching vocals on ‘ People In Love.” 
"Ships Don’t Disappear In The Night (Do They?)” provided the necessary brisk background for the peeling and cutting of a multitude of tomatoes. 
"I’m Mandy, Fly Me” added the sugary sweetness in cupsful, "Marriage Bureau Rendezvous” that essential salty taste, topped off with the acidy vinegar of "Art For Art’s Sake." 
While the mixture bubbled merrily for the necessary hour, we reflected on the changes that had taken place in 10cc. Gone now are Lol Creme and Kevin Godley, and with them half the creative talents of the often-infuriating, often-delightful Shepherd’s Pie that was 10cc. 
It has been replaced with the constant striving for a perfect musical souffle that has been the mark of Eric Stewart and Graham Gouldman. They've surrounded themselves with a mixed grill of highly competent musicians, to leave this effort sounding like an immaculate studio omelette with applause dubbed on at the end. 
10cc Mark One was a dubious live entity, never quite reaching the dizzy heights they did in the studio. The new model has changed all this. The new recipe now looks set to conquer on the stage as well. We broke from our reflections to add a dash of funky mustard to "Wall Street Shuffle", but found the spicy curry powder of "Oh Effendi” sadly absent. Also missing was the thickening flour that "Don’t Hang Up” or "Rubber Bullets” might have provided. 
Leaving things to simmer, we reached the conclusion that the pungent sauce tartare of the old 10cc, poking a derisive finger at human sham and foibles, is gone from the table forever. In its place is a smooth mayonnaise of pop perfection that is bound to sell like hotcakes. 
The chutney was superb.
Artist: Emmylou Harris 
Album: Quarter Moon in a Ten Cent Town 
Record Label: Warner Bros 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Emmylou Harris has already enjoyed a Top 20 hit the gorgeous "Boulder to Birmingham”. She has sung backup on albums for such established artists as Linda Ronstadt, Little Feat and Bob Dylan. She has had three highly-touted solo albums, yet with this, her fourth, she still hovers on the verge of major popular success. There seems to be two basic reasons. Firstly, she is essentially a country singer being promoted in a rock market and, as such, faces that market’s buyer resistance. Rock listeners will embrace the odd novelty country number (Dr Hook, Commander Cody, etc) or the occasional ballad (herself, Maureen McGovern, et al) but not sustained exposure. Even the extraordinary Dolly Parton experiences this problem. 
Secondly there is the problem] faced by all singers who are not also strong songwriters, namely the finding of good material. If Linda Ronstadt is forced to scuffle for songs, retreading wornouts and accepting filler, then how are ladies with far less sales appeal going to make out? 
Fortunately Ms Harris has a couple of friends who write well. Her rhythm guitarist i Rodney Crowell contributes two numbers here. His rocking “I Ain’t Living Long Like This” is a standout. Susanna Clark’s “Easy From Now On" is probably the strongest song on the album so I suppose it's only fair that she should be allowed to illustrate the cover. (The album title is also her line but she can’t paint as well as she writes.)
On the Jesse Winchester compositions Harris further demonstrates her interpretive ability. Winchester’s wistful, almost languid pieces gain strength from her plaintive performances. There is also a fine duet with Willie Nelson on "One Paper Kid”, highlighted by the spare accompaniment of harmonica and acoustic guitar. 
The backing throughout is, as previously by her own Hot Band. They are aptly named with veteran guitarist Albert Lee, in particular having many fine moments.
All in all, however, I can’t see this album radically altering Harris’ popular status. It’s a pity, because, although her appeal may not be as immediate as, say, Ronstadt’s, her voice is as pure and her emotional sense seems more finely honed. (And for those who count such things, she is also stunningly good looking.) Harris continues to work at what she does best, refusing to sell out on the chance of ephemeral chart success. In the end it must be the only way but as the lady sings: "Been doin’ all I can but opportunity sure comes slow.”
Artist: XTC 
Album: White Music
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Grant Dillon
Any relatively new English group with short hair and such a snappy name is bound to come in for a pretty critical reception these days. Especially one with a keyboards player. But XTC fare well by most comparisons. 
Organ and piano don’t lend themselves to quite the same identikit buzzsaw effects as guitar does, but most new groups use them for similar rhythmic effects. XTC excell in that the other musicians match this with a beatiness almost to the point of making it funky. The rhythm section is terse and tight enough to tell of the years it’s been together. Andy Partridge guitar and Barry Andrews keyboards, match up well in their mutual quirkiness. The beats they play are clear, choppy and more than a little unpredictable. It’s good to hear an English group that’s willing to play with a bang and a squeal rather than a thud. 
The songs range from breath-catchingly clever to bouncy pop. The care that’s shown for their structure and texture is relentless. It’s a record that’ll stand repeated listening, although I have it on good authority they’re far superior live to their performance on this record. 
Don’t call it art, don’t .call it new wave until you've heard it so often that the terms don’t matter any more. But do listen to it. It’s got "All Along The Watchtower”, and falsetto harmonies on it, so it can’t be too bad at all. 
Artist: Stephen Bishop 
Album: Careless 
Record Label: ABC Records
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
A record like Stephen Bishop’s Careless always poses difficulties for a reviewer. What does one say about music that is so patently inoffensive, so well played by studio musicians who include Victor Feldman, Eric Clapton, Andrew Gold, Jim Gordon, so immaculately produced, so infused with good taste, and yet still somehow missing out on big league status. 
Stephen Bishop is a young man whose overwhelming influence appears to be Paul Simon. The tinking electric pianos, the clean acoustic guitar sound, the understated backing vocals, Bishop’s own voice are all reminiscent of Simon’s magnificent Still Crazy After All These Years.. Perhaps Bishop’s difficulty is that he chooses such a demanding model. Simon’s is a delicate art constructed from impeccable musicianship, a real lyric gift and memorable melodic construction. 
It is not that Bishop lacks these talents. He sings extremely well, probably with more flexibility than Paul Simon, he pens good tunes (“On and On" presently doing well as a single is really excellent), and his words are middling to good.
But Stephen Bishop is not Paul Simon and in the end falls short, if only marginally, on every count. That of course takes its toll, particularly on the issue of originality. 
Potentially a fine talent Bishop founders in a professionalism that tends to be imitative. It’s very nice to have famous names on your record, it's very nice to set high standards, but because it doesn’t define its own style this album remains a pleasant something to tide one over to the next Paul Simon original.
Artist: Earth, Wind & Fire
Album: All n All 
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
I’m going to stick my neck out and propose a theory: that, on the evidence of this album, Earth Wind & Fire are becoming increasingly dissatisfied with their restricted role as disco darlings, despite their popular success, and that they are seeking to develop their potential in fresh, less commercially safe, directions.
The tracks on All 'n All may be broadly considered in three I sections: the uptempo, dance-oriented numbers, three slower romantic songs, and a couple of very brief 'interludes'. 
The five fast numbers contain the heart of the album. Yet of these, the hit "Serpentine Fire” is the most obvious in conception and the least musically exciting. The song is, I suppose, necessarily straightforward, written within the limitations of the disco formula. However, although the other four up-tempo tracks depart from these limitations as they develop subtleties and complexities, they nonetheless retain the essential visceral appeal of good dance music. This development culminates in the superb “Runnin'” which, not only has thoroughly sophisticated rhythm section work, tempo changes, and two classy horn solos, but contains an oblique mocking of their hit single. Half-way through “Runnin’ ” the music winds down and we hear ‘‘Serpentine Fire" coming from a tinny, pocket-radio type speaker. One of the musicians calls "I wanna get down. We gotta take it on up," and so the band resumes "Runnin’s” pulsating instrumental. 
This self-criticism is not, perhaps, as overt as I have made it out to be. “Serpentine Fire’’ is still side 1 track 1, while ‘‘Runnin’ ” is buried in the middle of side 2. The group (or the record company), do realise where the money comes from. 
Both fast and slower numbers are well written, although the sound-picture 'interludes’ soon pall. Mercifully they are brief. 
One of the great strengths of this album is the musicianship. It is excellent throughout: disciplined, tight and driving. The horn-work is especially noteworthy; the arrangements are imaginative and the performance punchy. And this applies equally to the slower tracks. (Try the kickass brass and rhythm sections on “Be Ever Wonderful”.)
A word about the cover: Only the first shipment of the album receives the original double cover. If you intend purchasing the record be in fast because the full cover painting, which obviously won’t open out on a single cover, is worth having. It’s an idealised secret-power-of-pyramids-in-days-of-future-past sci-fi thing. Good fun. Unfortunately, however, the inner sleeve (in both cases) contains a lyric sheet. Aurally, the lyrics can easily be ignored; read, their complex niceties prove to be meaningless verbiage and rhyme-for-fun.
But it is a minor criticism. All in all All ‘n All is a welcome surprise. An American critic once labelled Earth Wind & Fire as black middle-of-the-road, as purveyors of assembly-line music. On this album they show a potential and desire for much more. If you like the single you're probably going to investigate this album anyway. Even if you dislike "Serpentine Fire" there’s a lot more which may appeal. It’s worth checking out.