Artist: Dragon
Album: Running Free 
Record Label: Portrait 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Some days after I’d been given this album, I met Dragon vocalist Marc Hunter for an interview. Now, he’s a big guy. Six foot something and an assured, even arrogant, manner. At the end of the interview Marc fixed me with a stare and said, “You guys got a copy of the album?” I assured him we had. In clipped tones he said, “What do you think of it?" 
What do you say? I decided to go for the truth. “Well. .. I don’t think it’s as strong as your last one." He stared at me. "You’re right," he replied. 
So there it is, straight from the horses mouth. And I guess I was right, but only partially. Sunshine was a strong album. It presented snappy melodic songs in a potent pop/soul/rock composite. Its Australian success was entirely deserved. 
Running Free adopts much the same musical approach as its predecessor, but apart from the single, "April Sun in Cuba", lacks the kind of immediate melodic hooks that "Get That Jive", "Sunshine" and "This Time" provided on the last album. On a surface level, then, it’s a less attractive record. But Marc assured me the album’s strengths are buried deliberately. And he’s right. 
If I don’t like an album I find it difficult to even work up the motivation to listen to it. With Running Free, I have no such problems. It contains enough immediate rewards to keep you listening and its strengths are slowly revealed. Particular goodies are Paul Hewson’s ‘‘Shooting Stars”, and his beautiful ballad "Since You Changed Your Mind”. In fact, the only really weak tracks are the two rockers "Any Fool Can Tell You” and “Bob's Budgie Boogie". Effective stage stompers though they may be, on record they develop little beyond their first lines. 
O.K. then, don’t expect to be clouted on the head at first listening. But the rewards are definitely here for those prepared to put in the effort. Marc told me so. 
Artist: Bob Welch 
Album: French Kiss 
Record Label: Capitol 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Bob Welch used to play guitar and do a bit of vocals with Fleetwood Mac (pre —"Rhiannon" days). Now that Mac are enjoying all that lucrative fame he feels it’s time to get in on the action, and just to show there's no hard feelings a few of the group lend a hand with his first album. Mick Fleetwood does a bit of drumming, Christine McVie sings some backup, and Lindsey Buckingham plays guitar. Buckingham and McVie also produced track one, the hit "Sentimental Lady". 
Welch has aimed directly at top 40 radio and, if his songs lack the distinctiveness that Mac's writers are capable of, they nonetheless contain some very catchy hooks. "Hot Love Cold World” and "Lose My Heart" (which appears in 2½ versions) would also make good singles.
The problem with the album is that, overall, it tends to induce bland-out. Vocals, arrangements and production all want for variety. Welch has a pleasant but nondescript voice its - very lack of character makes Christine McVie’s four words of solo vocal on "Sentimental Lady" stand out disconcertingly. 
Any variation in the arrangements comes by alternating lead guitar, strings and synthesizer over a standard rhythm section. The production, however, tends to subsume any such differences. Everything, vocals included, is swallowed into one echo-laden sound. No instrument has any bite the strings have a sharper edge than the fuzzed guitar! This is rock? It’s records like this that support my theory that there’s an inverse correlation between production and humanity in recorded sound. 
Or perhaps I’m missing the point and these songs are meant to be heard between adverts coming from a two-inch speaker on the beach. As they used to say about Marmite, fine in small doses but too much spoils the flavour. 
Artist: The Commodores 
Album: Live 
Record Label: Motown Records 
Reviewed By: Murray Cammick
1977 was the year the Commodores brought their brand of funky musical extravaganza to New Zealand. After brilliant shows, they departed leaving in their wake their album Zoom, which spawned the singles "Brickhouse", "Zoom” and "Easy”. 
With the success of Zoom, the Commodores were able to undertake a 50 city tour of the U.S of A on which they recorded Live, a double album which features all their major hits, except "Machine Gun”. 
Live was not recorded at a single show and there is no introduction, encores or significant crowd noise. It consists of 11 live tracks plus the studio recording of their new single, "Too Hot to Trot”. The six Commodores are assisted on stage by the 'Mean Machine’, and a guitar man. And unlike more traditional Motown acts, the Commodores do not work with an orchestra or dismiss their finest material in fast paced medleys. With live recordings, the energy expressed on stage in movement, lighting and dry ice is not visible. But with the exception of "Zoom" the energy of intensive stompers like "I feel Sanctified" are more impressive than the ballads. On stage, a slow paced song can easily become only a strategically placed breather for a team of song and dance men. 
Possibly, the live versions are not ‘a patch on the original' but so what? Live recordings are best considered, not as new and improved versions but as ‘loud versions’. Unlike the original AM recordings, to get into Live, it has to be played loud. What better way to get up in the morning than to your own Commodores concert?
Though the studio album, Zoom, remains the best introduction to the Commodres, if you want something loud and live to cherish until they visit again, Live is the answer. 
Artist: Joni Mitchell 
Album: Don Juan’s Reckless Daughter 
Record Label: Asylum 
Reviewed By: William Dart
1977 has been a bumper year for me as far as W.E.A. are concerned. My five top records come from their catalogue - Maria Muldaur’s Sweet Harmony, the McGarrigle sisters’ Dancer with Bruised Knees, the Beach Boys’ Love You, Linda Ronstadt’s Simple Dreams and Randy Newman’s Little Criminals. And it seems that Joni Mitchell’s new double album is going to be added to the list. 
Together with Newman’s Little Criminals, Mitchell’s Don Juan’s Reckless Daughter is the premier songwriter's album of the year. Yet Newman and Mitchell are strikingly different in their songwriting approaches. Newman writes short and epigrammatic songs whereas Mitchell favours expansive and rhapsodic tales - the prototype of which is probably "The Last Time I saw Richard" from her Blue album. 
Newman likes to achieve some distance between himself and his song, whereas Mitchell's songs seem almost embarrassingly personal at times. “Talk to Me” from the new album is a case in point with the songwriter searching for "Mr Mystery" and pissing tequila anacondas in parking lots.
"Dreamland”, the liveliest and most accessible track from Don Juan’s Reckless Daughter, sees Mitchell relating her life style to her Canadian origins, and "Jericho”, which gets its first airing on Miles of Aisles, is a poetic development of the conceit that is at the core of Capra’s It Happened One Night. In a concert recording of the late sixties, the lady prefaced her "Fiddle and the Drum" with a long rap on the problems of being a Canadian in America. Don Juan's Reckless Daughter seems to indicate that Joni Mitchell is coming to terms with America. The last song on the album, “The Silky Veils of Ardour” is a strange one with many phrases lifted from the American folk-song book "Come all you fair and tender school girls", "I am a poor wayfaring stranger”, "The water is wide” etc. etc. This parallels "Old Man on the Farm” from the Little Criminals album where Newman concludes:
Goodnight Ladies 
Sorry if I stayed too long 
So long it's been good to know you
I love the way I sing that song. 
In the song "Don Juan’s Reckless Daughter” the American problem is crystallised as a snake-eagle duality which works as both the expression of the IndianEuropean relationship and the songwriter's latent schizophrenia. At the very core of the album is "Paprika Plains”, a fifteen minute epic which fills one side of the album. 
In "Paprika Plains” Joni Mitchell portrays the European rape of the Indian culture with such artistry and emotional power that one asks oneself “What ever happened to Buffy Sainte-Marie?”. The song culminates in the image of a child’s beachball which is transformed into a dance hall glitter ball, an image that recalls James Ivory’s Savages of a few years back. 
"Paprika Plains” gains a lot of its power from Mike Gibbs’ string arrangements, but the album has an assortment of musicians from track to track. Chaka Khan, Airto, Wayne Shorter with a brilliant soprano sax solo at the end of "Jericho”, John Guerin, Michel Colombier (remember Wings?), J.D. Souther and Glen Frey. 
It is ridiculous in a way writing a review of such a complex album as this after only a week of listening. But I can’t see how your record collection can even hope to attain to respectability without a copy of it, right next to Randy Newman's Little Criminals. 
Artist: Electric Light Orchestra
Album: Out of the Blue
Record Label: United Artists 
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer.
ELO’s previous album, A New World Record, successfully stole from the likes of the Beatles, the Easybeats and Little Richard with possibly unintentional good humour. The humour was most obvious in the mock seriousness of the introduction to "Tightrope” and in virtually the whole of "Rockaria!" For that reason one couldn’t help but admire Jeff Lynne for shaping ELO into a hit-making unit where Roy Wood had failed.
But success can do funny things to a person, and Out of the Blue raises questions that could be safely overlooked before. ELO sound more like Chicory Tip than ELO these days and Jeff Lynne seems to be taking himself seriously. Someone should remind him that plagiarism doesn't count only if it’s done with good humour.
Plagiarising yourself is one of the funniest things you can do but this time there's no revamped "Do Ya" to fall back on. This is a double album, more than an hour's playing time, choc-full of hit singles as Lou Reed might have put it, but all of such similarity as to make a double album a waste of time.
There is no apparent progression from A New World Record to this; Jeff Lynne has found a hit-making forumula which he intends to play for all its worth. In the end the choice is still yours; buy this if you like. The question is how much we ask of the records we buy. 
Artist: Roxy Music
Album: Greatest Hits
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Bryan Ferry’s cover for this Roxy compilation is almost unspeakable in its golden vulgarity. But “greatest hits" albums have always been a little blatant. 
Greatest hits? Yes, folks, remember all those chart-busters. Still, it’s arguably the best of Roxy, striking a good balance in culling from four albums and including the singles ‘Virginia Plain” and "Pyjamarama”.
The remaining tracks are "Do The Strand,” "All I Want is You,” “Out of the Blue," "Editions of You," "Love is the Drug," "Mother of Pearl,” "A Song for Europe," "The Thrill of it All” and "Street Life.”
The tracks are not arranged chronologically but there’s no jarring in the juxtaposition of songs from different periods. A good sampling of a unique concept. Whether Ferry, whose vision it was, equals the work here in his solo career remains to be seen. 
Artist: Eric Clapton 
Album: Slowhand 
Record Label RSO 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Alas, poor Eric. I knew him . . . and then he just seemed to fade away. To say the least, Clapton has always been an erratic figure, a god figure without fixed identity, assuming the characteristics of his companions. In this case, in repose. 
Clapton will always exist in the shade of his classic Layla album (one of the rare double albums-worthy of the vinyl), but that's not to bad mouth his other work. 461 Ocean Boulevard was a real pleasure and the following two albums only a little less in overall quality. No Reason to Cry showed an aimlessness, a desultory tossing off that might have come off if the songs had been stronger. 
Even the less arresting moments of No Reason to Cry don’t prepare for the sheer slumber of Slowhand. The material is thin and the delivery pale. The songs (Clapton owns up in most cases) are, in the main, one-line sketches drawn beyond endurance. A notable exception is the blues "Mean Old Frisco”, but it’s the kind of thing Clapton can do in his sleep (and here, he does).
J.J. Cale’s "Cocaine" opens the album. Maybe it's over-familiarity with Cale’s version, but it just sounds like a cover that you might hear in half a dozen pubs around town. Next is "Wonderful Tonight". That’s about Clapton going out with his old lady and she looks wonderful and he feels wonderful. Gee. "Lay Down Sally" is four-to-the-bar country rock, J.J. Cale-ish. Some excellent guitar interplay and sustained drive.
The other songs tend toward either the Eric Clapton "romantic tune" (example: the end section of "Layla") or the Eric Clapton "upbeat tune" ("Hello, Old Friend"). An instrumental, "Peaches and Diesel", which has a stylistic kinship with “Wonderful Tonight” might have made a dreamy little filler to round out the album. At 4.48 it remains filler.
Slowhand is very disappointing, the most disappointing Clapton album I know. Many Clapton fans have been disappointed for years. I haven’t been among them . . . but to extend the metaphor ventured in the opening sentence "where be your gibes now? your gambols? your songs? your flashes of merriment, that were wont to set the table in a roar?" 
Artist: The Crusaders 
Album: Free as the Wind 
Record Label: ABC Records 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
As a unit the Crusaders, Stix’ Hooper: drums, Joe Sample: keyboards, Wilton Felder: saxes, Larry Carlton: guitar, and Robert Popwell: bass, fair bristle with competence. Admiration for their degrees of instrumental proficiency and crispness of execution is virtually mandatory. And it should be said before anything else that Free as the Wind maintains all the standards of production, all the clarity of sound, all the understanding of musicians who have had long association, that we expect from the Crusaders.
On the other hand one must begin to be wary of such uniformity. Certainly there are new compositions of value on Free as the Wind; on just a few listenings "Nite Crawler” and “Free as the Wind’’ stick in the mind. But it would be stretching the imagination to say that the Crusaders are assuming new directions. It takes quite some concentration to separate out any single number from the record in the memory, the evenness of style, and consistently funky rhythm becoming reminiscent, in the end, of good television music. That is not necessarily a criticism, but it does typify it as something one tends to put on in the background the sort of stuff you bop along to while doing the dishes.
In 1976 the Crusaders did some work with Van Morrison. Many must have hoped that this would produce something that was more up front but sadly the venture fizzled out. Since then the band have gone along in their own steady way and Free as the Wind can only be described as continuing the pattern. 
Artist: Dave Swarbrick 
Album: Swarbrick 
Artist: John Renbourn Group 
Album: A Maid in Bedlam 
Record Label: Transatlantic 
Reviewed By: William Dart
Good to see material from the Transatlantic catalogue appearing in local shops again. Now that RTC have got the rights to this label, perhaps we shall get more material coming through. Incidentally, both of these albums are rather brave releases in this part of the world, considering the music of both these men is so much tied in with the contemporary folk-club circuit in England. 
Swarbrick's album is a splendid achievement. Well, just what you'd expect from the driving force behind Fairport Convention’s “Bridge over the River Ash” and “The Hen’s March”. For a taste of Swarbrick's high voltage fiddle-work try the opening number, “The Heilanman/Drowsy Maggie”, with Beryl Marriott kicking up a storm on the ivories, in the best ceilidh band style.
There are some more familiar names on Swarbrick's album, including Martin Carthy who adds guitar on four tracks and Simon Nicol and Dave Pegg who add guitar and bass to most of the other tracks. Carthy recorded several duo albums with Swarbrick in the late sixties, and Nicol and Pegg were with Swarbrick in Fairport Convention. When Swarbrick does have a full band sound it is much the same feel as the Albion Country Band. 
A lovely album this, and an obligatory purchase if you like English trad folk. Now to John Renbourn.
I was never really that stuck on Pentangle, of which Renbourn was a member. The group's rather 'cool' and tasteful version of folk music was somewhat kicked in the guts by Steeleye Span and some of the electric groups. In fact I think one of the happiest albums that Renbourn produced was his Lady and the Unicorn which was much more classical in both material and the treatment of the music. 
A Maid in Bedlam exudes taste from Rossetti cover onwards but it doesn’t really make much impact with me. I don’t particularly like Jacqui McShee’s vocals, and Keshave Sathe’s over-predominant tablawork almost drove me to distraction. Renbourn is a fine guitarist and this shows through the album, but with all the musical distraction going on around him, it is rather like looking at a beautiful gem in a rather awkward setting. 
Still, "Nacht Tanz/Shaeffertanz” is an attractive version of these medieval tunes with strong oboe and violin work. But even so in hearing the oboe I am reminded of how much more enterprisingly this instrument was treated in Ashley Hutchings’ Compleat Dancing Master. 
But give Renbourn a listen if you can. I have a sneaking suspicion it will grow on me— lam already quite happily listening to it for the third time. 
Artist: Jackson Browne
Album: Running on Empty 
Record Label: Asylum
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
If I asked you what was last year's record industry cliche, you'd have to say the live album. 
If I then asked you what was the worst cliche of the art rock debacle, you'd have to say the concept album. 
What then are you going to make of Running on Empty, which is nothing less than a live concept album? 
In fact, if you have any faith in Jackson Browne, you shouldn't expect anything because you're going to get a surprise. While the tag ‘live concept album' might conjure up visions of Thick as a Brick played at Madison Square Garden with a liberal sprinkling of ‘improvements' added afterwards, Running on Empty can only be described as a whole new type of record. 
I don’t think I have ever heard a record, with the possible exception of Neil Young’s Tonight's the Night, which so accurately mirrors its content in the way it is played, and recorded. Running is unquestionably a record about touring in a rock and roll band, and so Browne has recorded himself and his band on tour. That didn’t involve setting up all the facilities of the Record Plant in some stadium, but instead we have tracks recorded in hotel rooms, on stage, backstage, and best of all, on the tour bus. 
So, if the song is about the rigours of travelling everywhere by bus - "Nothing but Time" - then record it on the bus itself, with the driver throwing in gear changes in time with the chord changes. If its a song about missing out on the girl you had your eye on during a rehearsal, record it at rehearsal, like "Rosie". Virtually every song on the album, right down to the shambling, hotel room version of the Rev. Gary Davis’ "Cocaine" not only has a place on the record, but a definite and important location.
Of course, another side of crawling around the country for a songwriter is the difficulty of writing new material. This must be especially noticeable for Browne who has confessed to taking up to five years to get a song right. Rather than skirt around this by retreading old favourites, he has filled the album with collaborations, songs by others, and songs which show a similar instantaneous roughness to the recent output of Neil Young and Bob Dylan. This more vigorous approach, along with the conspicuous absence of Jon Landau from the producer’s chair marks a welcome turning back from the almost-formula slickness of The Pretender. I only hope that Bruce Springsteen also escapes Landau’s cottonwool clutches.
The band - basically The Section (Kortchmar, Sklar, Kunke' and Doerge) with David Linley added - has to be good to come up with the goods under these kind of conditions, and as you would expect from L.A. s finest, they come through, with an extra edge you seldom get from them on more familiar territory. 
I saw Jackson Browne and David Linley perform together here early last year, and swore then that I'd sell my grandmother to sit in the front row of a real full-scale concert by them. Now I’ve heard one I’m in no mood to change my mind.
Artist: Boz Scaggs
Album: Down Two Then Left 
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Boz Scaggs may be the most elusive artist I know. Repeated listenings to his music leave a sense of not having heard, the tunes ethereal and beguiling. 
The new album is no exception. The first impression is of a bland dehydration. Persistence forces a reversal of opinion. This is extraordinarily good. 
Down Two Then Left is produced by Joe Wissert who did Silk Degrees and is in a similar mould, with the musicians creating an "atmosphere' for Boz. There's no impression of a "band'' in the usual sense. This move can be traced to the Johnny Bristol-produced Slow Dancer, which has been re-issued.
Like Silk Degrees the songs ease their way into your spine. It's an insidious process.
Scaggs' accessibility depends on repeated exposure and it may be this that for so long kept him a beloved cult figure, seldom venturing beyond the Bay Area. And perhaps it’s the slow-burning quality of his music that made the sleeper Silk Degrees such a lingering success. Scaggs has been playing impeccable music since his sojourn with Steve Miller, another trouper only recently to gain worldwide prominence. He deserves his new-found success.
I find it hard to name my favoured Boz tracks (apart from the gigantic "Loan Me A Dime" - a desert island disc). My favourite is usually the one that’s playing. It's that kind of music. Maybe I’ll plump for "Hard Times", "A Clue" and ‘l993’’. But ask me later; I’ll be playing this one for a long time.
Artist: 
Album: The Boomtown Rats 
Record Label: Mercury 
Reviewed By: John Malloy
The Rats are an Irish band who have grabbed a slice of the music biz pie by the time-honoured method of being more outrageous than the next guys, to the point of using live rats, blue movies, and chunks of raw liver in their stage act. If you saw them on the box recently, you may agree that they’re right up there with the Pistols for live excitement. Forget about the punk label - there’s nothing new about rock n' roll, and the Rats are hot stuff. 
The big difference between the Rats and bands like the Motors and the Stranglers is that the Rats are nearly as young as their audience. It shows in their first album. Most of the songs have a high teenage identification quotient. This ain’t bad, depending on whether you’re seventeen or twenty three, but to a boring old fart some of the lyrics sound a lot like what was going down in the sixties. And just as corny; 
Don't wanna be like you 
Don’t wanna live like you 
Don't wanna talk like you, at all. 
They redeem themselves with a surfeit of energy, and a couple of songs that show just a touch of social awareness. “Never Bite The Hand That Feeds" has feminist sympathies, believe it or not. "Joey's On the Street Again" stands out with a Springsteen feel and a good hook. And the rest are mean and nasty enough for any pogoing vinyl-suited crowd. One for the safety pin set.
Artist: Flora Purim 
Album: Encounter
Record Label: Interfusion 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
With lush ballads and funky beats on her previous album, Nothing Will Be As It Was . . . Tomorrow, Flora Purim appeared to be reaching for a broader, more popular appeal. The album was a melange that never really excelled in any direction. Now, with Encounter, she has left the big commercial arrangements and returned to her familiar ground of working with a small combo (varying here from two to seven members). ‘Returned’ is really a misnomer because with this set Purim has moved ahead, exploring and improvising with a freedom and surety that mark the progress of a mature musician who is still extending herself. As in the past she operates, not as a singer with a band, but as catalyst and integral member of a group. 
The musical empathy evident here is remarkable. Perhaps it is to be expected of such long-time associates as Airto, George Duke and Hermeto Pascoal, but everyone’s playing deserves high praise. Rhythmsshift and swirl with a marvellous cohesion; beats are stated or implied with masterful subtlety. (Bassist Ron Carter is amazing as always.) These sensitive musicians can provide delicate support for Purim as she employs her vast range to float and soar, or they can build blistering tempos to propel her silken yet elemental cries.
Followers of Purim’s music will be familiar with the way her vocal work extends to a wordless, almost scat style. Here she continues the shift from singing words to creating sounds - the few lyrics are largely non-English anyway - and this often provides a more direct emotional concentration rendering the music positively atmospheric. Besides Purim's voice there are many delights on this album: Chick Corea’s tyically light and airy composition "Windows”, the rhythmic development of the ballad “Uri”, Joe Henderson’s tenor solo on his own “Black Narcissus”, the tripartite vocal work on the title track. Mention must also be made of the two tracks involving piano giant McCoy Tyner. Perhaps initially the most inaccessible, these employ Purim and Tyner exploring interesting harmonic patterns.
There's a lot I could say about this record because there’s a lot to listen to. Suffice that it keeps getting better. A word of warning however: it's not an album to easily assess after 20 minutes in your local store. (After one hearing I didn't even want to review it.) It requires and amply rewards serious listening.