Artist: Robert Gordon with Link Wray 
Album: Robert Gordon
Record Label: Private Stock Records 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Rockabilly Lives! Robert Gordon's debut album is subtitled “An Instant Record". Appropriate. It rocks with raw power from the opening bars of “Red Hot" and doesn't let up. 
Gordon is a former singer for a punk band who claims his heart lies in Tennessee, or more precisely in the Land of Sun Records and the rockabilly sounds of Elvis and Carl Perkins and Eddie Cochran and that mythical figure Link Wray, who features on guitar and writes a few tunes. 
All the material is firmly in the white rock'n'roll tradition of the mid fifties. Gordon's delivery does his inspirations proud. “I'm not trying to recreate something,” he says, “this is how I feel.” The lasting impression is of vitality with no sacrifice of musicality. Good rocking.
Artist: The Motors 
Album: 1 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: John Malloy
The Motors may look like a punk band, but the resemblance ends there. They got nothing to say of any social significance, and they don believe in the three minute limit. What they are is a rock n' roll band. Wanna go deaf fast? Go to a Motors gig. 
Punks they have listened to include the number one teen greasy of all time, Chuck Berry, and those mod boys, the Who. There really is nothin’ new, believe me. 
They do have a flair for melody, with a few catchy hooks thrown in for the kids, the best example being “Dancing the Night Away". Gets into your brain after a while. Doesn’t really matter where they got it from. It’s Rock n' roll. Two guitars, bass and drums, and they all sing. In the conventional sense of the word. Good songs too. Make you dance. 
So if you’re into energy in a big way, and you like catchy toons, light on the punk stuff, take a bite of Motors with your amphetamines. Body food.
Artist: Rod Stewart
Album: Foot Loose & Fancy Free
Record Label: Warner Brothers 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Goodbye to Hollywood and all that. Blurred and besotted-looking, Rod Stewart stares off the cover of his new album. His white suit is crumpled.
Having shed Britt, Stewart hasn't quite shaken off his LA ennui. But he's made a good stab at it, with what seems to be a deliberate reversion to former times. The booklet inserted in the sleeve stresses the boozy, brawling image (there's Rod, chug-a-lugging, supporting soccer). 
A key to the vigour of the album may be the choice of musicians, not the session men of the previous two outings, but the band Stewart brought with him to Western Springs earlier this year. The empathy between Stewart and his band gives the music a far firmer base.
The songs are strong. The rockers "Hot Legs" and "Born Loose" are reminiscent of those I lurchers that were the staple of the Faces, "(If Loving You is Wrong) I Don't Want To Be Right" demonstrates Stewart's ability at wringing every nuance from a strong ballad, and "You Keep Me Hangin' On” is a mini-symphony worthy of the memory of the Vanilla Fudge.
But it’s not all rock'n'roll heaven on Sunset Boulevard. This otherwise very strong album contains two songs of sentiment, "You’re In My Heart" and "I Was Only Joking,” lilting ditties, romantic, effusive, mawkish. Sadly, they are the songs that will sell the record. 
Artist: The Steve Gibbons Band 
Album: Rollin’ On 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
The Steve Gibbons Band is a Birmingham based outfit currently suffering from an affliction that ails many British bands - they're not new wave. Furthermore, being from outside London they're doomed to be continually ignored in the music press. 
No matter, they are a tasty little rock n’ roll unit - a two guitars line-up fronted by vocalist Steve Gibbons who has a good line in leather gear and sultry, macho good looks. But despite the strength of the performing ability evident here, they have one basic problem. They tend to lack identity or, perhaps more correctly, personality. Their original material, which veers from straight country to rock n' roll, is melodically strong and their choice of others songs (Chuck Berry’s "Tulane" and Jerry Reed’s "Tupelo Mississippi Flash”) inspired. It’s just that nagging lack of a distinctive character which sabotages this record and keeps it in its place as a pleasant collection of tunes. 
A truly strong album could well break these boys through from the interesting/ promising category and turn them into a top flight act. This isn't it, but their next could well be.
Artist: David Bowie
Album: Heroes. 
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
In many ways Heroes is a surprisingly small step onward from its predecessor Low but it suffers nothing in comparison to that album nor anything else that’s being done right now.
Most obviously it differs very little in the way it’s programmed, there's still the division of the album into a wordy side and a side that’s largely instumental. The music itself is also similar, much of it still comes on like a shattering windscreen but the arrangements are more complex, the instrumentation more varied. Heroes is abrasive and distancing in parts while in others it’s completely seductive, and the continuing presence of Eno as a musician and a major influence throughout ensures the music’s surrealist intensity.
Early doubts included a suspicion of gratuitous wierdness masquerading as the avant garde, but there’s hardly been a Bowie album that hasn’t caused a slight twinge of "am I being had?". In my experience it’s testament to the power of his music that such twinges are almost part of the initial attraction and then they soon disappear. 
Bowie has made several great albums and even the odd one that’s difficult to like has never been less than interesting, none can be ignored. His music is now at its must original and challenging on Heroes. 
The explorations are made underground, in the dark and on the run, and the findings are brilliant ciphers held close to the chest with one hand as the other incites us to dance. 
“Beauty And The Beast:’’ Bowie wails down the air-conditioning shaft accompanied by disgruntled synthesizer rumblings and a catchy love chorus giving all they’ve got that’s catching. 
MY-MY
someone fetch a priest 
you can't say no to 
the Beauty arid the Beast. 
“Joe The Lion:” Further down the shaft as Bowie’s last-ditch singing spurs all participants onto maximum effort until the last Jagged throe. Probably not about Chris Burden who had himself nailed to a Volkswagen. 
“Heroes:” Rock-heart hypnosis with the touch of the Velvets, lacework by Eno. If dolphins had discoes, I’d go and watch. Love this one. 
“Sons Of The Silent Age:’’ British psychedelic reborn . . astonishing pop with the return of that Bowie voice in a deceptive arrangement that grows more fluid every time. 
“Blackout:” Like “The Secret Life of Arabia" which we find on the other side, this harks back to the quasi soul-funk (blush) of Young Americans, but "Blackout” stops at the Station along the way. 
And if you liked the instrumentals on Low you'll like those on Heroes, they differ only in small ways, but there’s no brief and easy description of these tracks although parts of "Sense of Doubt” make my typewriter rattle if that’s of any significance. Last night I climbed into my bath with a paperback while Heroes filtered though the wall . . . just as Bowie's saxophone emitted ted the final bleats of "Neukoln” I found myself reading the words, "and the saxophone sounds like some prehistoric bird. Man, these are musicians." Good records have Their own ways of helping you come to grips with them, it seems.
Artist: Iggy Pop
Album: Lust for Life 
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Mike Chunn
I was surprised when faced with this album. I didn’t imagine Mr Pop to be so fertile in composition. And of the contents? ... Well, it’s a bit of this and that with bits and pieces of other things thrown in. David Bowie recorded the album and wrote the music, however, the only thing that points to Bowie’s involvement is his name on the record sleeve; the sound of the album is far removed from any Bowie I can remember. Structurally it is as simple as the excretory system of a tui - take that how you will.
Mr Pops voice still dominates and he sounds peculiarly good. His lyrics read as if he made them up on the spot while recording. Beats me, mate. A bit wishy-washy this record ... Perhaps I should mention some pertinent details such as a list of the dudes who play on this gig, man. Only one problem there, and that is I couldn’t tell you. 
The album is quite strange really. It seems unattractive but it dominates the room. It oozes onto the floor like boiling mud. It streams out of your woofers and tweeters into your lugs. The sort of album you jog on the spot to after a couple of jugs. Perhaps Ignatius himself could give you a more lucid explanation. I quote a section from an interview with him in the U.C.L.A. newspaper ‘Scrimmage’: 
UCLA: “Is Lust For Life an extension of the Idiot, your previous album?" 
Pop: . . aside ... “Burke" ...
Artist: Osibisa 
Album: Black Magic Night 
Record Label: Bronze 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
In one public survey 90% of interviewees who like rock music gave as their reason, ‘lt makes me feel good.’ Now, if you saw the respective audiences at the recent concerts by Lou Reed and Osibisa and apply the criterion suggested by that survey it’s abundantly clear which performance was superior. The predominant tone of a Reed concert is calculated pose nihilism ergo passivity. Osibisa, on the other hand, had people out of their seats by the second number, leaping and swaying in happy abandon. (Sorry Lou, Sally can dance; it’s just that you don’t get her excited anymore.) 
Yet acclamation of Reed's (anti-) art is almost de rigueur in so many rock circles when Osibisa is often considered not worth discussion. Such inversion of popular reaction is not, I hope, just critical snobbery but witness to the fact that our primary response to rock music has always been via recordings rather than live performance, and, (forgive the reiteration) there is a vast difference between the two. This difference is even nay, especially evident in the case of ‘live’ recordings. 
Black Magic Night is a double album recorded at London’s Royal Festival Hall. Although it is well-recorded and adequately captures the spirit of a live concert, many aspects of the record begin to grate with successive listenings. Not only do announcements, introductions and audience cajoling irritate, but the music’s limitations become increasingly obvious. Where you were once caught up in mass exuberance, now the beat becomes more monotonous than insistent, the tunes too repetitive. Percussion workouts might have been stimulating visually but transferred to record are plain boring. Although Osibisa’s musicianship is capable, the soloing is very derivative; a fact not nearly as important in the atmospheric heat of a concert as it is alone at home with the stereo.
Nevertheless, the album does have its virtues, even if they are somewhat qualified. The seven-piece line-up can contribute a full sound, although I wish the reeds were stronger. (The mix is percussion-dominant.) Individual vocals are supplemented by a four-piece backup to give richness, yet things go flat once or twice. Rhythms do remain bouncy and occasionally the group’s sparkling energy comes through, particularly in up-tempo instrumentals. Memories of an actual concert do help however.
In fact that is when Black Magic Night might be a success: either as a momento of a concert or to help create a similar atmosphere. You know; if you’re having a Christmas bash and want to get all the age-groups up dancing you could play this album. But be sure it’s loud.
Artist: Joan Armatrading 
Album: Show Some Emotion 
Record Label: A & M 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
About a year or so ago I spent more time than usual driving around in a car, and the clearest thing I can remember about the radio programming at the time was how neat “Down to Zero” and “Love and Affection” sounded against the wall-to wall disco which washed over the other fifty-five minutes in the hour. 
When the Editor gave me Show Some Emotion as a consolation prize for not winning the Hello Sailor Competition, I was sure that I was in for a real treat, but I must confess it’s all something of a disappointment. While the musical standards of this album are almost certainly as high as those of Joan Armatrading, there is nothing in its ten tracks to match the intensity of the best songs from the last album.
After a week of hopeful listening, “Never ls Too Late“ emerges as the top contender for lightening a dull hour on the radio, but really you’re going to have to write this one off to experience and go looking for Joan Armatrading or Back to the Night. This might leave you thinking that Armatrading is nothing more than a top-notch set of pipes. They are enough to convince you that she is a truly great songwriter.
Artist: Stomu Yamashta 
Album: Go Too 
Record Label: Arista 
Reviewed by: Peter Thomson
In his 30 years Yamashta has accomplished much. By 14 he was tympanist with the Kyoto and Osaka Philharmonic orchestras. He has composed for movies, (working for such directors as Kurosawa, Ken Russell and Robert Altman,) the Royal Ballet, not to mention his own theatrical troupe. Nevertheless, despite his impeccable credentials, I approached Go Too with some trepidation. I have this terrible prejudice against anything redolent of classical rock, and, like Kipling, think that never the twain should meet. Arthur Fiedler’s orchestrations of John Lennon were bad enough but they hardly warranted Keith Emerson's revenge upon Bach and Bartok. Attempts at a ‘third stream' fusion also leave me cold. (I leave the room if even the innocuo.us Mike Oldfield is played.) O.K. tirade over, but you get my bias. 
Go Too comes as a pleasant surprise. I'd heard its predecessor only once, in less than ideal conditions, so didn’t really know what to expect - namely that Yamashta is well enough grounded in both fields to go about the merger with some assurance. He obviously has considerable savvy and is shrewd enough not to attempt too much. Where others have buried fragile melodic lines under impossible orchestrations, or, worse still, kicked great music with club-. bed feet, Yamashta's music is original and his arrangements, if attempting the grandiose, do so without falling into pretentiousness. The only real lapses are on the latter part of Side One where a couple of tunes are protracted beyond their capacity. 
The material is strong and varied, encompassing pop ballads sung by Jess Roden and Linda Lewis, punchy rockers propelled by the superb drumming of Mike Shrieve and the graceful fire of Al DiMeola's guitar, plus a couple of spacey instrumentals a la mid-period Pink Flyd. These latter are dominated by the synthesizer of Klaus Schulze who contributes excellent work throughout the album. And, of course, there’s the übiquitous .Yamashta. His percussion effects add subtle colouring while his production is lush enough to wallow in. (Parts of the album could induce a quadraphonic wet dream.) 
All concept albums must, of course, have a Grand Theme and while Go Too is no exception its subject seems to be a straightforward happy love affair. No doubt the album originally had a double cover giving the lyrics often hard to hear due to the production or at least a thematic note. This would help explain the various sound effects: (footsteps, whale-calls etc.) A listing of instrumental credits would have been given as well but the local record company has only supplied a single cover, so depriving us of the information.
I cavil however; the most important thing is the music and, on the whole, it is impressive. My prejudice has taken a beating. Yamashta has demonstrated that attempts at such fusion music can succeed. Roll over Keith Emerson and tell Rick Wakeman the news.
Artist: The Sex Pistols 
Album: Never Mind The Bollocks, Here’s The Sex Pistols 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: John Malloy
I could write a whole bloody essay on the Sex Pistols but I’d bore you all shitless. It’s all in the N.M.E. anyway. First of all, forget all the shit you’ve heard about them. They can play. No class. No subtlety. But they can play. 
And then there’s Johnny Rotten. It’s sort of irrelevant whether he can sing or not. He can deliver. Menacing? I'll say. Your mother won’t like him. 
The songs are ruthless, repetitive, politically naive, abusive, and brilliant. They're not about political reality. They’re about the way you feel.
I am an antichrist 
I am an anarchist 
Don’t know what I want but I know how to get it 
I wanna destroy ... 
They’re a challenge. 
Problems, problems 
The problem is you 
Whatcha gonna do? 
Listening to them is like listening to a circular saw. It stops hurting after a while. 
That's it. It's the most important record of 1977. It takes stamina to listen to it. Only the strong survive. Play it after school, after work. Play it before breakfast. Play it loud. If that don't get you kicked out of home, you’re living by yourself.
Artist: Skyhooks 
Album: The Skyhooks Tapes 
Record Label: Mushroom Records 
Artist: Radio Birdman 
Album: Radios Appear 
Record Label: Trafalgar Records 
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
America may never understand Skyhooks but their wide appeal to Australians has always seemed obvious; a combination of catchy, often simplistic songs with lyrics relevant to Australian youth, that dealt with such as VD, dope, homosexuality and ego. In America Skyhooks have been compared with the Tubes, 10cc, Roxy Music, Kiss, the Rolling Stones . . . even the Bay City Rollers. The inclusion of Skyhooks’ “Horror Movies" on Vertigo’s compilation album New Wave - among songs by Patti Smith, the Damned, Talking Heads, the Ramones and the New York Dolls can only cause further confusion. 
The Milwaukee Journal came closest in describing Skyhooks as “.. . defiance, pure and simple. Even by the more liberal standards of the US, this has got to be the most blatantly rebellious group since the MCs’’. That was last year, before the New Wave. 
Skyhooks are back in Australia at present, recording a new album with a new guitarist before returning to the States in the new year. The Skyhooks Tapes is a “best of” selection that summarises the band’s career to date and includes five tracks previously unreleased on album with a re-recorded version of “Whatever Happened to the Revolution?”. “Revolution" was recorded at the same time as the third album, Straight in a Gay, Gay World, at the Record Plant in California, but it has lost its simplicity in the remaking. That loss of simplicity and, in turn, the loss of aggressiveness was the main failing of Straight in a Gay, Gay World. With Bob Spencer as replacement for Red Symons, with a new album that includes several new Greg Macainsh songs with promising titles like “Megalomania”, “Bedroom Eyes" and “Why Don’t You All . . .?”, Skyhooks may yet have the new confidence that’s needed before America accepts them - probably as part of the New Wave. 
Sydney’s New Wave group Radio Birdman have always insisted on their own independence. Radios Appear was originally distributed in Australia by the group, their studio and by mail-order through their fan club, at a discount price. This hasn’t endeared them to the record industry but has led to run-ins with promoters and media, with the group branded as too arrogant for their own good. Arrogance is okay if you've got the goods to match, and the album's only fault is a too obvious debt to the Stooges. Radios Appear includes a version of the Stooges' “TV Eye”, more exact than the original and, while the band obviously loses some of the excitement it is supposed to have when playing live, the songs are tight, the production clean, the album more in common with New York’s New Wave than England’s.
Artist: Randy Newman 
Album: Little Criminals 
Record Label: Warner Brothers 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
Randy Newman has a nice life. He lies around in the sun a lot, he likes his family, he gets paid by a record company, and he is probably a genius. Extravagant praise? Well, a new Randy Newman record after three years is cause for dancing in the streets so some heady celebration is permissable. 
With Little Criminals Newman returns. It’s good to have him back. There have been changes, notably Ry Cooder’s virtual absence and Newman’s use of L.A.’s silver throated sons, the Eagles. But Newman’s economical arrangements are as original as ever they were, his melodic gift thrives, and he conjures, with each song, an immense atmosphere. 
From the comic throw-off "Short People", to the melancholy "Texas Girl at the Funeral of her Father", he appears to be in complete control. The guitar playing Newman solicits from Glen Frey in “Baltimore” would suggest a masterful influence upon his musicians. And he remains one of few performers who can really use a studio orchestra.
Little Criminals, like Sail Away, demonstrates Randy Newman’s flexibility. The dozen songs cover topics from small time hoods to Albert Einstein. He picks out fragments of American life and fondles them, his nasally evocative voice passing wry commentary. Newman in a recent interview said he wonders why song writers don’t use the third person more often. The statement hints at his own special talents. He is the master of the narrative shred. He doesn’t bare his soul, he doesn’t accuse his audience, he doesn't call down God's wrath from the pulpit, but takes an incident and wrings from it the most astonishing and complex sentiments. 
Ambivalence is the trademark of a Newman song. “In Germany Before the War” is about a Dusseldorf child murderer. It is a sympathetic and elliptical story of a man going, in early evening, down to the Rhine. There he watches a golden haired child. It is also a scary song. 
We lie beneath the autumn sky 
My little girl and I 
And she lies very still 
She lies very still. 
Newman’s humour grows out of this same balance between the everyday and the extraordinary. He loves a mock epic tone. “Sail Away” was an ironic anthem for the slave trade. "Jolly Coppers on Parade" deploys a similar touch. 
Oh, it's all so nice 
Looks like angels have come down from Paradise 
Jolly coppers on parade. 
There are few people who can be as funny as Randy Newman, and just as few who can be so devastating. On the one hand is the comic delivery of cowboy cliches in “Rider in the Rain", on the other is the sad “Texas Girl at the Funeral of her Father". Because of his expressive scope and musical finesse Newman will probably still warrant listening in thirty years. For the present I’m content to label Little Criminals one of the year's best.