Artist: Blondie 
Album: Plastic Letters 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Blondie have shattered another myth that surrounds so-called New Wave bands . . . that they can’t lay aside their punk chic and break through into a wider, more lucrative market. 
This platter, quite simply, is one piece of gorgeous, sensual, invigorating rock ’n roll. The British, exhibiting their usual good taste, have taken Blondie to their hearts. Us colonials would be well advised to do the same. 
Their influences, as stated by themselves, are too diverse to list, ranging from the Fab Four to the Rascals, to the Vanilla Fudge, to the Doors, to Dave Brubeck, and more. 
But the overriding one, their raison d’etre, has to be Phil Spector. The main reason here is that he produced singles which sounded great on radio. “We all remember when you'd switch on the radio and hear at least 20 great singles in a row, but all that’s finished,” says a wistful Debbie Harry. 
Blondie have set out to at least try and recapture some of that feeling, and if they don’t get a healthy slice of airplay here, then there’s no justice left in the world. 
But then, this band has to succeed, with the two terrific assets it has. One: the ability to write first-class songs, with the emphasis on mel-o-dee and tight, no-nonsense arrangements. Two: Debbie Harry, rock’s very own Marilyn Monroe. 
Debbie just has to be one of the best things that happened to rock since Grace Slick appeared topless on stage. A deceptively-fragile creature of exquisite grace, she combines the pinup appeal to drive men wild with the mental toughness and self-assurance that makes her more than just a divine face and come-hither eyes and magnificent legs and ... oh, sorry, that won’t happen again. Promise.
What’s more, the lady can sing. No whispery, breathy, Donna Summer fantasy trips here. Debbie switches effortlessly from belting boogie on “Kidnapper’’ to the charming innocence of “I Didn’t Have The Nerve To Say No” without having to resort to cheap, singing hooker tricks. This girl ain’t owned by nobody.
The rest of the band, Chris Stein, Clement Burke and James Destri, visually take their places beside Willy De Ville as superhip street boys. They play with a consummate skill epitomised on the breakneck "Detroit 442” and the psycho scream of “Cautious Lip.” It demands attention and cannot be confined to the background. 
The track that screams out “single” is “I’m Always Touched By Your Presence, Dear.” Small wonder Spector is itching to produce Debbie. Too late, Phil. Richard Gottehrer has got there first, and done the job just as well, with Debbie sounding just perfect over a wall of strumming guitars and clashing tambourines. 
Following close behind are “Denis” and “I’m On E”, where Debbie brings back all those dumb, teenage crush vocal inflections that the Ronettes, the Shangri-Las and a dozen other ‘ 60’s girlie groups made famous. Totally charming and lovable. “Plastic Letters” has something for everyone. It sounds every bit as good on a stereo as I know it’ll sound on radio. Do your ears a big favour and start listening. 
Debbie, yer luvley.
Artist: Al Green
Album: The Belle Album
Record Label: Hi Records 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
Not since Percy Sledge’s heyday, and before him Sam Cooke, had a soul singer taken as firm a hold of me heartstrings as when I discovered Al Green. I have a compulsion to acquire new Al Green albums as they arise, can’t wait to get my sconegrabbers onto them. Of his last half-dozen or so I guess I’ve liked them all ... some better than others but I’ve liked them all. 
Al Green has one of the best voices in popular music, and I'd bring that down to a company of about seven or eight. His backings are at best, simple and direct, as is his songwriting, and his choice and treatment of cover versions is consistently interesting. Most importantly he has amassed a body of work that radiates personality and vision. He’s a soul singer who embodies all that the label might hope to suggest. A major artist in an idiom overburdened with mediocrity. 
You guessed it ... I kinda like this record. 
To my mind The Belle Album is Green’s best since the superb Al Green Explores Your Mind (a bad title for a great album). On this one he forsakes the Hi studios session band for a new rhythm section and sounds all the fresher for it. The songs are all self-penned - it’s an album of love songs with religious overtones or religious songs with sex undertones - and either way it’s one of the best so far this year. (And there've been some goodies.) 
There's nothin’ like having a good rave about a favourite! 
Artist: Leonard Cohen
Album: Death of a Ladies’ Man 
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
I am sure that one of the principal attractions of Leonard Cohen's first three albums was their perverse accessability. Despite the determined obliqueness of the words, the songs were performed in such a way that a whole generation of girls with long, shiny hair could take up their Yamaha classic guitars and plunk out a fair rendition. Ideal for bed-sit identification points. 
Cohen’s fourth studio album, the notably less successful, New Skin for the Old Ceremony, stretched this premise somewhat by the inclusion of a fuller band, and then there was a long period of silence. 
On Death of a Ladies’ Man, we are confronted with a paradox. At last Cohan has bowed to some of the dictates of the popular song. Without losing his rather overbearing sense of irony, he has shed the more impenetrable lyrical mannerisms of his older songs. At the same time, he has given up on the readily-identifiable sound of these songs. 
By teaming with Phil Spector (even to the extent of sharing all the song-writing credits) and a whole army of New York session men, he produces a huge,leaden sound, which far outstrips even the Spector-John Lennon albums. The voice is still there, but now it rides on an extraordinary backing of Spector’s teen-dream melodies played by no fewer than fifty-nine musicians (often it seems that they are all playing at once). 
I’m not altogether sure who is going to buy this album. After all, all those girls with the shiny locks are long gone, and their Yamaha guitars bequeathed to their little brothers to pose with in front of the bedroom mirror. I hope somebody out there can temper a taste for the melancholic with an affection for the Shangri Las. 
Artist: Rufus with Chaka Khan 
Album: Street Player 
Record Label: ABC
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
As an album title it’s rather misleading. The band has never sounded further away from the raw, rough energy we normally associate with street-life. The cover photo suggests the music’s style more closely: some folks may be playing basketball but group leader Tony Maiden wears a smart white suit as he dances with an elegantly gowned Ms Khan. What, no more bare midriff and denims? Have they sold out, plumped for Las Vegas? 
I don’t think so. It’s more that this album continues what seems to have become a carefully modulated change of focus. The funkin’ excitement is still there but it tends to be channelled into more sophisticated settings now. And, as the beat becomes more complex and the arrangements more subtle, the band itself is playing with a greater restraint and cohesion. It’s as if there's a reliance on power coming through instrumental interaction, rather than simply the sum of individual output. But does it work? 
On the whole, yes, and largely because Rufus’ most effective instrument is still the remarkable voice of Ms Khan. (It’s no coincidence that two of the least successful tracks are the instrumental and the title song on which she provides only support vocals.) As a singer she’s got it all: power, pitch, range, fine-phrasing, and the taste not to show off by indulging in gratuitous pyrotechnics. She, too, has modified her style however. On a number of tracks one is more likely to compare her to Dionne Warwick than Aretha Franklin. Nonetheless, her performances are a joy to hear.
Inevitably I suppose, because of the changing style, there will be some old Rufus/Khan fans who will feel disappointed with this album, bemoaning the ‘weakening’ of the band’s earlier, more earthy sound. Yet Rufus has always been a very eclectic outfit, performing an assortment of styles and often with considerable success. On Street Player they continue to borrow and with no less achievement; it’s just that they’re drawing from different sources now. So, if you lament the use of strings - although I find they work well - then enjoy say, the crisp and tasty horn work. If you think something's lost, something's also gained. There are no bad tracks here and some are outstandingly good. The whole album is thoroughly professional. I’m pleased to own it.
Artist: Parliament 
Album: Funkentelechy vs The Placebo Syndrome
Record Label: Casablanca 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Strange things tend to happen when you play Parliament albums in the privacy of your own home.
First, the dust that has inevitably formed on your Led Zeppelin records starts to jump. Small objects start to rattle and vibrate, in time, of course. 
As your temperature starts to rise, you feel your shoulders starting to drop and your arms push themselves away from your body, anthropoid-style. Your neck sinks down into your body and your eyebrows start to wiggle and revolve rapidly in opposite directions around your face. 
By now, the lower half of your body is moving totally independent of the upper half; hips, knees, ankles and boomps-a-daisy shifting in directions you didn't know they could, and guaranteed to slip a disc under normal conditions. 
But these are far from normal conditions, Starchild, as you fall a helpless victim to the irresistable supergroovalistic prosifunkstacation of George Clinton, Booisy Collins and their retinue of faithful funketeers. 
Parliament make body music without parallel. It not only moves, it can remove. It spins all around you in an insidious fashion, urging you on to greater physical feats, and you just don’t ever want it to stop. 
Here, for your delight, brothers and sisters, six new tracks from one of the only three bands which know the true meaning of the word "funk’’ (the other two being Funkadelic and Bootsy’s Rubber Band, of course). 
Every track is chocolate-covered, freaky and habit-forming. If you ain’t yet ridden on the Mothership, it's high time you took the trip. It makes you smile, keeps you fit, and probably cures warts as well. 
Dig, baby, Dr Funkenstein is gonna getcha, stick a bolt through your neck and turn you into funk-crazed little clone. Is there funk after death? Is Seven Up? 
You too can be a walking lobotomy. Get off your ass and jam. Saturday Night What? 
Artist: Roy Buchanan 
Album: A Street Called Straight 
Record Label: Polydor
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
The success of Buchanan’s collaboration with Stanley Clarke, Loading Zone, has resulted in the belated release (in New Zealand) of this two year old album. 
As with other Roy Buchanan efforts versatility is the keynote. The sounds range from the blues through gospel and country sounds a la Tony Joe White to a personalised version of Jimi Hendrix' ‘lf Six was Nine” and the pyrotechnics of the foray with studio electronics, "Guitar Cadenza.” 
Buchanan is a guitarist of superlative technique, often blindingly beautiful, as in the haunting "The Messiah Will Come Again.” 
But his voice, while pleasant and down homey, is limited, and lacks the easy charm of a Tony Joe White. Consequently, interest must centre on his extraordinary guitar playing (Side Two is almost entirely instrumental), rather than the too-alike countrified vocals. 
Artist: Taj Mahal 
Album: Evolution (The Most Recent) 
Record Label: Warner Brothers
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Taj Mahal is as much musicologist as musician. He has run the gamut of the music of the Americas, from the electric blues of Chicago through the Mississippi Delta to slave chants and the roots of Caribbean music. 
Evolution offers a hearty helping of the various facets of American music without becoming bogged down in academia. 
Taj Mahal is using modern “disco” rhythms in the manner of Boz Scaggs. The combination of light funk with the steel drum sounds of the West Indies and rhythm and blues changes makes a very rewarding sound. 
Taj's humour hasn't deserted him either. There's a sly impersonation of Howling Wolf. But the biggest buzz is a hypnotic instrumental, "The Most Recent (evolution) of Muthafusticus Modernusticus". For repeated listening. 
Artist: Ry Cooder
Album: Boomer’s Story
Record Label: Reprise 
Artist: The Stooges
Album: Funhouse
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
With Ry Cooder booked for an Auckland concert in May it is particularly apt that WEA records have chosen to re-release various Cooder material. 
This man's following, though perhaps cultist, is founded upon deserved respect for a brilliant musician’s adaption of his surrounding culture. And it is a following that will be grateful for any Cooder repeats. 
The re-issue of Boomer's Story, as an example, allows easier access to a superb album and affords a chance to re-state Ry Cooder’s public service in bringing diverse and ethnic American music to a rock audience. Boomer’s Story, his third album recorded in 1 972 is a characteristic collection of musical Americana, ranging from the traditional “Boomer’s Story” to the wartime anthem “Cornin’ in on a Wing and a Prayer". The Cooder treatment includes those virtuoso, if shambling, picking and slide styles of his and of course his voice. The latter is a truly remarkable instrument, graced with a blend of cynicism and drunken reverence for the music of his birthplace. Like personal friend Randy Newman, Cooder projects a laconic indulgence in his native America. And like Newman’s his is likely to be a lasting contribution to a Yankee tradition. Boomer's Story is simply recommended as a fine exhibition of that achievement.
Apart from country of origin and roughly comparable vintage the Stooges’ second album Funhouse bears no relation to Cooder's in any way at all. Why mention it here? Solely because it too is a re-release, emerging through the same distribution company. 
Recorded in 1970, Funhouse claims historical merit as prefigured punk, a splash of the new wave much before its time. However Iggy Pop and friends pound through seven compositions, sadly obscuring in the process a reputation the Stooges have as a crunching guitar-riff outfit. At fault is an appalling production, all mush and middle, and some wildly irrelevant sax playing by Steven Mackay. Funhouse was recorded without Stooge guitarist James Williamson and will disappoint those who expect a driving new-wave anachronism. Only Iggy’s voice, raucous and bluesy, really escapes the acid rock time warp in which the backing is enmeshed. Sadly Funhouse is as dated as Boomer's Story is timeless. 
Artist: Wings 
Album: London Town 
Record Label: Capitol 
Reviewed By: Mike Chunn
Well, blow me over with a bikie’s b.o. McCartney manages to sound like everybody (including Abba, Fairport Convention, Elvis Presley and Peter, Paul & Mary) except himself. He seems to have deserted his excellent bass-playing and singing for old age. He still hasn't deserted his wife, alas. (OK, Fems, start moaning).
The songs on the album are fairly weak particularly in relation to his successful commercial stuff (eg “Let Em In’’, “Letting Go”) and as well, the usual high standard of arranging has gone. Instead we have an acoustic bias in the strum-strum vein (a la Matamata on Saturday night) and Linda’s keyboard work is particularly unadventurous. 
Many of the tracks are co-written by Denny Laine and lyrically they are quite insubstantial. 
I know a tiny waterfall 
A magic little place 
Where we can play together 
And watch the fishes race 
As well as Laine on bits and pieces, guitarist, Jimmy McCulloch, and drummer Joe English, help out to a questionable extent. (Both have now left the group although it appears that English wants to rejoin. Sap). 
Overall however, it is the songwriting that really fails. Late last year McCartney was talking to old friend Tim Finn and he mentioned that he liked “Charlie". Now if he could write songs like those boys, old London Town would be a great deal more interesting. As it stands though, I guess it’s bye bye Macca. 
Artist: Jefferson Starship 
Album: Earth 
Record Label: Grunt 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Like the roofpaint, this band just keeps on keeping on. Can you credit, it's 12 years since it took off? Sure, things got a bit turbulent there for a while, what with pilot trouble and all, but now the Starship enterprise seems to be cruising more smoothly, than the Airplane ever did. 
It seems more popular too. Fancy getting a Grammy award. Has middle America embraced the revolution? Hardly. Flight plans became modified; that’s all. The only sign of Kantner’s old hippies-plumb-the-galaxy ethos on this album is the title and cover. The only whiff of politics is on one track “Show Yourself." 
Many things, however, do remain the same. The music still has vestiges of that amateurism-made-good feeling which characterized so many 60's San Francisco bands. Often, ideas displayed in both song structure and performance seem dated. This is particularly evident in the guitar and keyboard soloing. 
Yet there’s also a positive side ot the retaining of things past. Many tracks are redolent of that semi-structured, ’psychedelic’ free-flow so appealing of the Airplane. (This is not to belie the tightness of the band; simply to emphasize that even though musicians may change, the sound remains defined by the three original copilots.) 
But then, hasn’t the whole flight-log itself become a bit of a bore by now? Surprisingly not. Earth is probably a better record than it’s immediate predecessors. While it may not contain a single of the magnitude of, say, "Miracles”, (though that remains to be seen) as an album it’s far more unified and of higher overall quality. There’s not that impression of a couple of good tracks standing out in an uneasy mixture containing too much filler. 
The singing, too, is better, more assured. Although the odd strain still shows, Grace and Marty are sounding more comfortable now. 
My initial reactions to Earth were largely negative. I was going to write about aging rockers who refuse to retire gracefully. But, dammit, they do still pack a wallop in their own, somwhat atavistic manner, and besides, the tunes have been hanging around my head for days. 
Artist: Karla Bonoff 
Album: Karla Bonoff 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: William Dart
Hot on the heels of Libby Titus, another new songwriter from C. 8.5.. This is Karla Bonoff ex-back-room-girl for Linda Ronstadt, everyone’s favourite Girl Guide. Bonoff’s first album is produced by her own husband, Kenny Edwards who just happens to be Linda Ronstadt’s bass player .. . 
Ronstadt fans will like the Bonoff album, although mercifully, she abstains from attempting the Buddy Holly revival that Ronstadt seems to be always forcing on her audiences. This is a rather gentle and reflective album, which I think will grow in my estimation the more that I play it. Perhaps I was lucky to start by listening to “Isn’t It Always Love” the rather catchy little opener to Side 2, by far the better half of the disc. 
Lyrically the songs seem to treat, if not indeed harp upon, the problems of love. This is something of a danger when you have an-album being basically written by one person, because it can become pretty unvarying. True, Ronstadt also favours love songs but different writers give the albums the variety they need. In fact the two non-Bonoff songs, Craig Safan’s “Faces in the Wind’’ and Steve Ferguson’s “Flying High” really stand out which may be taken as some criticism of Bonoff’s own songs. 
Let’s face it, you’re brave if you write and sing words like 
I'm not telling you lies now 
I need you 
You know how I think I can see how to let you grow 
I've got to let you go 
unless you're Andy Pratt. Session musicians like Waddy Wachtel, Russell Kunkel, Leland Sklar, Andrew Gold, Wendy Waldman etc. etc. etc. make it all smoothsville, but I suspect it does lack a little bit of variety as an album. 
Artist: Isotope 
Album: The Best of 
Record label: Gull
Artist: Tangerine Dream 
Album: Cyclone 
Artist: Gong 
Album: Expresso II 
Record Label: Virgin
Reviewed By: Nigel Horrocks
Tangerine Dream is one of the few groups to survive the early 1970’s interest in experimenting with strange electronic sounds. 
It is no longer trendy to venture into the avant-garde but this group is still pursuing the unknown. 
The group's latest Cyclone takes these musicians a step further. Tangerine Dream has always been among the most subtle and accomplished of the groups trying to create electronic masterpieces. Many such works have been rejected because of their cold distant approach and their overdose of synthesizers. They’d play with the new toy and forget about trying to create good music in the process. 
Early Tangerine Dream used an impressive lineup of keyboards plus the occasional guitar. The group borrowed ideas from leaders in the 20th century classical electronic field like Stockhausen and Ligeti (whose works were included in the film 2001). They sought to help create the music of the future. 
Vocals feature on Cyclone perhaps not as successfully as one may have hoped. It inevitably draws comparisons with the Alan Parsons project or even Pink Floyd. Possibly this album will make the group more accepted by a wider rock audience. 
Gong has had a more unstable career. It was founded by poet-guitarist David Allen who also founded Soft Machine. At one time it achieved cult status in France but has gone through many line-up changes. This album includes Mick Taylor.
Expresso II is late night meditation. If you enjoyed Michael Oldfield's Tubular Bells this is your sort of music. The soothing experiments involve a wide range of instruments including vibes, congas, violins, tubular bells and even a glockenspiel. 
At times it becomes bland and drifts too much into supermarket background noise. One track is even called “Boring.” At its best it is pleasantly refreshing soft unobtrusive jazz, at the end of a hard day. 
The Best of Isotope is an easily accessible and interesting compilation of musical experimentation from a group formed by India-born Gary Boyle, ex Julie Driscoll-Brian Augur Trinity. Isotope’s works are often described as jazz-rock - one of those horribly meaningless tags often put on groups which can't make up their mind where they want to head. Whereas Tangerine Dream has at times mixed starkness with emotion and made it work, both Gong and Isotope seek a simple rhythmic pulse which often fails to jump out and involve the listener. Trying to add some art and colour to hackneyed rock chord changes is not enough. At times Isotope do not appear to understand where their ideas are heading but this best of compilation provides an interesting variety of their attempts to achieve credible results in this difficult sphere. 
Artist: Eddie and the Hot Rods 
Album: Life on the Line 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Alastair Dougal
Eddie and the Hot Rods play fast. Very fast. 
On Side One of Life on the Line they burn through five songs at a high velocity. A wall-to-wall adrenalin rush that speeds in on the best song on the album, the great single “Do Anything You Wanna Do”, and exits at much the same speed sixteen minutes later. 
In fact that’s the problem here. The songs are mostly so fast that there’s no room for dynamics. The same buzz-saw guitar solo recurs and little apparent variation is achieved in the flat-out format. So you get several rewritesofthesamestylewhich range from the classic (“Do Anything") to the good (“Telephone Girl”) to the dire (“Don’t Believe Your Eyes”). 
Thus, although only half of this album is a total success, the Rods have solved the where-do-we-go-from-here problem. They arrived as a tough R&B based guitar band. A precursor to punk they became swamped in the flood of the New Wave. 
The addition of guitarist Graeme Douglas from the Kursaal Flyers has moved the band in the direction of what’s currently termed powerpop. The Rods have got power aplenty and with a little more concentration on the material and pacing, the next album should see them safe and well away from having to put their lives on the line. 