Artist: Television 
Album: Adventure
Record Label: Elektra
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Television have a lot to live up to. Their first record received such universally good press that any sign of faltering, however slight, might be taken as evidence that it was all too good to last.
The obvious way out for their second album would have been to carefully reconstruct their debut, Marquee Moon, in the best tradition of second albums. Instead, Adventure covers new ground. Side Two has a strong resemblance to Marquee Moon, but Side One contains five songs which are more closer to the traditional concept of rock and roll songs, and which could help Television to make the step from being fashionable to being established. 
The tight frameworks of the songs on side one curb any possibility of Television turning into the Pink Floyd of the Blank Generation, as the long guitar work-outs are kept in check, and a much wider range of styles is revealed, from the neo-Byrds 12-string of “Days” to the rock and roll of “Fox-Hole”. It is hard to believe that they have gone far enough to persuade New Zealand’s timid radio programmers to let the record anywhere near their turntables, but they seem likely to impress a lot of those who do hear.
One thing is for sure, Adventure should convince everybody who is still in any doubt that Television have nothing whatever to do with the punk label. They demonstrate enough versatility to dispel the possibility of the band being caught in a stylistic strait-jacket, and have nothing in common with the pin-head bop of the Ramones. 
As a final pointer to the band's possibilities, the last song on Side One, the ethereal “Carried Away’’ does away with the usual two-guitar backing to float along on Tom Verlaine’s organ playing like some latter-day “Whiter Shade of Pale” . Whether he will use this kind of format more is debatable, but it shows up the extent to which Verlaine and his band are aware of the dangers of becoming too highly stylised. 
Very few bands could have made Marquee Moon, even fewer could have followed it up with an album that was significantly different, yet every bit as good. 
Artist: Bob Marley & The Wailers 
Album: Kaya 
Record Label: Island 
Reviewed By: Ras Roger Jarrett
It’s like . . . you reach a certain spot, right? In your journey, it’s like you’re driving down the highway and you reach a rest-place and you go in and get a cup of coffee and t’ing and this an that. Slow down and take it e-e-e-easy . . . ‘Easy Skanking’, y’know.” Bob Marley on Kaya. 
Let’s get this right out in the open: Kaya is 1978's most rankin’ commercial elpee - a celebration. 
Well . .. 
Exodus was for Marley the first record in the new phase of his musical expression. A rhythm & blues, soul, disco synthesis within the bounds of reggae. An approach designed to win him a larger audience without sacrificing any originality. His ploy has proved remarkably successful, especially in Britain and Europe where he has undoubted number one status. 
Bob has always had an ear for good music outside the reggae idiom. Catch A Fire, a masterpiece and his first Island release displayed art-rock overtones Pink Floyd, King Crimson etc. A return to a more traditional reggae stance delivered Burnin', Natty Dread, Live and Rastaman Vibration. These albums, all of them excellent, kept his audience growing steadily. It was not until Exodus however that the real potential Marley audience could be seen.
Now Kaya . . . 
These songs were largely recorded at the sessions for Exodus. They represent however a lighter more optimistic view of the world, rather than the call to arms Exodus portrayed . . . and, to my mind, Kaya is a superior album because it is so much fun. A party album par excellence! Not one bad note, wasted lyric or indulgent solo. Marley 1 s voice could not be better. Every phrase has that sexual, knowing, lilt. 
Obviously Bob Marley is setting himself up as the prophet come superstar of reggae music. Some may dislike his stance but one can’t discount his courage and, if you believe in music, he cannot be faulted. Personally I can't wait for the next step in the Marley plan for world reunification. So ... If you want one album to wash away those disco overdose blues . . .Kaya is the one. Rastarfari! Seen! 
Artist: Bob Dylan 
Album: Masterpieces 
Record Label: CBS
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Bob Dylan may not be in the Elvis Presley class yet, but he is getting pretty heavily ' anthologised. After Greatest Hits Volume I, II and 111 comes Masterpieces, about two hours of selected Dylan songs, ranging from "Song to Woody”, off his first album, to “Lay Lady Lay” from Hard Rain. Of course, it doesn’t include any cuts from Dylan's two Asylum albums, and thus contributes further to the burial that Planet Waves seems doomed to suffer. 
For the statistics freaks, the only album not represented is (of course) Dylan; the albums with the most songs (four each) are Freewheelin', Bringing It All Back Home, and Desire; there are six songs not previously available at 33⅓ RPM (except for those of you who have an original mono pressing of Greatest Hits Vol. I, who, of course, have “Positively 4th Street”) and there must be scores of other ways of categorising the contents of Masterpieces. 
The six sides seem to have been arranged with some kind of thematic plan in mind. Some of them obviously adhere to a common type. Side four, for example, has a representative sample of the ‘protest’ songs, and side six of love songs. Some of the others are a little harder tq typify, but you can’t help feeling that they have been arranged, and not just thrown together. I don’t know how much Dylan himself had to do with the selection, but it is speculations and little historical considerations that make retrospective albums interesting. 
As always, there could be quibbles with various omissions, but it is hard to see how they could have been accommodated without extending the collection out to four discs. Still, I would have liked to have seen “Visions of Johanna”, “Tonight I’ll Be Staying Here with You”, “The Wicked Messenger”, “Man in Me”, and “You’re a Big Girl Now” in there somewhere. Perhaps we’ll have to wait until Masterpieces Vol II. 
If you don’t own yourself any great number of Dylan albums, I suppose this would suffice, although any compilation reduces the feel generated by a single album. For those of you who have some of the more obvious Dylan landmarks, this is an ideal way of fleshing out your stock. For those of you who aspire to the lot, I know there is no hope, and even one new or variant recording, would persuade you to buy Masterpieces. The fact that there are seven, including the singles, “4th Street”, "Could You Please Crawl Out Your Window" and “George Jackson”, means there is no way out. 
Some people are train spotters, some collect paua shell jewel boxes, some people look through second-hand shops for original mono copies of Greatest Hits Vol. I. 
Artist: Talking Heads 
Album: Talking Heads 77 
Record Label: Phillips 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
We have all heard the phrase “new wave”. It is a rather silly blanket term for any remotely original rock-and-roll that has surfaced during the last eighteen months. It encourages the foolish association of English punk bands with Rhythm and Blues revivalists and even with current New York experimenters. Such mental sloppiness is lamentable. 
American band Talking Heads are perhaps the most misplaced bedfellows of all within this so called movement. It is an historical accident that Talking Heads nurtured an audience at CBGBs, the club in New York also known as a venue for the Ramones and Television. Talking Heads are as different from these two bands as each is different from the other. 
For one Talking Heads draw from sources people like the Ramones shun. Using a standard small band line up the Heads profess and develop a taste for pop, soul, disco. “The big difference between us and punk groups is that we like K.C. and the Sunshine Band,” says Chris Frantz, the Heads’ bass player, “you ask Johnny Rotten if he likes K.C. and the Sunshine Band and he’ll blow snot in your face.” After all Talking Heads are reputed to cover an Al Green standard in their live show. 
However, the real proof comes in the form of the band’s much acclaimed maiden L.P. Talking Heads 77. Released belatedly in NZ, it is in many ways a difficult album. Not because like Television’s output it demands a re-thought aesthetic but because it is an amazingly complex welding of rhythms, melodies, catchy arrangements and suggested styles. 
Talking Heads 77 takes at least half a dozen listenings before it begins to sink in. One has to accustom oneself to singer David Byrne's peculiarly aggressive voice, to the sheer wealth of melodic fragments, to structural changes that occur with astounding rapidity. There is little wonder that Talking Heads’ New York crowd is supposed to be swarming with folk who have intellectual pretensions, college students and young academics. However out of vogue the description, this is intellectual music. I am even tempted to believe that had Talking Heads first emerged in Britain they would have run into critical flak as art school clever-dicks. 
But because Talking Heads are demanding is no reason to run scared. Eventually 77 is sing-a-long. David Byrne is able to conjure more than his fair share of tunes which ingratiate their way into the consciousness. I'm not wholly convinced about the splendid virtues claimed by many for Talking Heads 77, but it has slowly become a record I enjoy. And that’s not to be sneezed at. 
Not the least part of the enjoyment derives from Byrne’s lyric talent. As a songwriter David Byrne specialises in persona pieces. This has earned him compari sons with Randy Newman that are misleading. Where Newman is economical and enigmatic, Byrne is prosy attempting to imitate the mental progressions of characters ranging from civil servants to psychopaths. As such he is attempting a fairly original combination of elements and achieves a fair measure of success. Like other features of this album the lyric content takes time to assimilate which is probably as good an indication as any that it will take many more playings before it palls. 
And I intend to give Talking Heads 77 those several more playings.
Artist: Lou Reed 
Album: Street Hassle
Record Label: Arista 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Love him or hate him (and there are few in-betweens), Lou Reed is the Grandaddy of Punk. 
Lou Reed was bawling out songs of depression in a moronic monotone when Johnny Rotten was still bed-wetting. 
In “Heroin” he wrote what is still the most devastating hard drug anthem ever, in “Berlin” he showed what it’s like to be on the brink of suicide and in Rock ‘N Roll Animal he produced a live work of overwhelming intensity. 
How he survived at all remains a mystery, since his personality endears him to very few people, and his work has disappointed as often as it has pleased. 
Now, after the less-than-inspired Coney Island Baby and the lacklustre Rock N' Roll Heart, Lou has finally made the studio album that his devotees (count me in) always knew he was capable of.
The overriding feeling in listening to Street Hassle is one of commitment. Lou sounds like he's really worked hard on this one. His singing carries real conviction, as does his guitar playing, and his production, aided by Richard Robinson, has genuine clout to it. 
What’s more, Lou seems to be baring a little of himself to public scrutiny for the first time. On the opening track, "Gimme Some Good Times”, he takes the piss out of “Sweet Jane”, playing the smartass, asking what the guy is actually doing standing on the corner, suitcase in his hand. 
The title track is a fascinating trilogy of New York scenes; the casual pickup, how to get rid of an O.D.'d body and make it look like. a road accident, a love affair breaking up. Bruce Springsteen makes an appearance, and the insidious little string riff that runs right through all three songs just never lets you go. One of Lou's finest hours. 
At long last, “I Wanna Be Black” is recorded, and here’s betting it took some courage all round. Lou has a rather perverse view of race- relations, and the easily-offended should steer well clear. Amazing that Lou ever found any ladies prepared to sing the backup lines too. Love it. 
Also resurrected is the Velvet Underground standard “Real Good Time Together", and I just know the other, new numbers are going to etch themselves inside the skull before long, they rock so hard and so well.
If you thought Lou Reed had no balls left, listen to Street Hassle, then think again. 
Artist: Atlanta Rhythm Section 
Album: Champagne Jam 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Champagne Jam is dedicated to the survivors of the ill-fated Lynyrd Skynyrd plane crash. Skynyrd and Atlanta Rhythm Section are part of a loose fraternity of Southern musicians, often given to mutual bad mouthing (Robert Nix, drummer for ARS and a former member of Roy Orbison’s Candymen, used to refer derisively to the hard-drinking, fist-throwing Ronnie Van Zant as "a pussy”), but a family nonetheless. 
The southern rocker’s credentials are hard work, good playing, and a reputation for boastful booziness. 
As personalities, ARS seem divided between excessive roughnecks and more introverted souls, but on record they’re superbly together. Ronnie Hammond has more shadings to his vocals than most of his contemporaries and he's backed up by a skin tight quintet. Exemplary stylings are provided by the guitarists, Barry Bailey and J.R. Cobb who use their instruments to provide texture rather than technical flash. 
The music is a mixture of Southern funk, thankfully free of cliche, and ethereal ballads, the extended "Imaginary Lover” a meld of the band’s two sides. Definitely recommended.
Artist: Generation X
Album: Generation X
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: George Kay
Along with geezers like the Buzzcocks, Adverts, Johnny Moped and Wire, Generation X form what you could call the second line of punks, that is, bands that have surfaced behind the big media names - Sex P., Clash, Jam and Stranglers (the pensioners???). As it happens these second liners are currently producing the muscle, whereas for my money only the Clash of the old guard have avoided going to fat. 
Generation X have got the muscle despite having had a lean time last year with two soft-core produced singles (“Your Generation” and “Wild Youth”) by Sweet producer Phil Wainman. Y’ can excuse Wainman really because X's vocalist Billy Idol has the pouting lips and bleached blond hair of a teeny pop hero not a decimated intellectual punk visage of a Keith Richard. Anyway, exit Wainman and hello Martin Rushent, Stranglers and Buzzcock’s producer who has used his ability to the maximum on this Generation X debut by giving Mark Laff and Tony James (drums and bass respectively) depth without losing the treble impact of Bob Andrews’ strident guitar work.
From the songwriting angle the band revolves entirely around Idol and James (he used to be in the London SS with Clash’s Mick Jones) and they have come up with some perceptive songs and more than a few strong melodies. Some of their material is concerned with the rock biz itself; the dangers of selling out in “Promises Promises” (“And punks are taking over Top of the Pops”); and their'tribute to the ’60’s TV glossy pop series “Ready Steady Go" (”l’m not in love with Juke Box Jury"). Who can blame them?? “Kiss Me Deadly” owes something to Springsteen with its jangling guitar intro and streetkid vocals, “One Hundred Punks” and “Youth, Youth Youth” are songs about being punks. Proud to be punks. 
Their songs are delivered with the same positive aggression and emotional commitment that was present in the music of the Yardbirds, Pretty Things, Kinks and the Stones at the height of the '6O s. No exaggeration.
If I’m betraying my age then you’re betraying yours by not buying this.
Artist: Kevin Coyne 
Album: Dynamite Daze 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Jon Adams
Kevin Coyne began his career on the London pub circuit and now, after five years and four albums, he is at last gaining the attention he deserves. 
If people can be judged by the company they keep, this album suggests he has come a long way. Zoot Money is there, along with Tim Rice, Bob Ward and Al James. The style hasn’t changed from his previous releases, it’s just been refined. And his style is an uncompromisingly direct form which owes a little to a lot of people. There are flashes of Ray Charles, of Gilbert O’ Sullivan, of Zoot Money and Alan Price. 
Had Coyne not been a musician, he might well have become a poet - his lyrics, bizarre at times, have a different feel from the usual singer/songwriter combination. Tracks like ‘Dance of the Bourgeoisie" and ‘‘Are We Dreaming" would have been called protest songs in the 60's. Today they slip past, barely noticed as social comment, but they are still important. 
"Amsterdam”, "Brothers of Mine” and "Woman, Woman, Woman” are the highlights as far as musical arrangements go, but “Lunatic”, a good foot stomping number, is in Coyne's best style. Rough and ready with a lot of feel for the lyrics. One gets the impression that he himself may have spent time dancing with madness. It is a recurring theme of his and he seems to have it in perspective. 
In fact, Covne has his whole act in perspective. There- wouldn't be a track here which would make it on the Top 50, but then Kevin Coyne hasn’t attracted his following compromising to mediocrity. 
Artist: Various
Album: Stiffs Live 
Record Label: Stiff 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Late last year Stiff Records went on the road in England with a tour aimed at presenting itself and its new talent to the hinterland. The album perhaps captures the tour’s success and its failure, in that rather than a recording of a concert it has the appearance of an in-performance sampler. 
Each artist gets a couple of tracks in which to parade his wares; naturally, some show more promise than others. 
Nick Lowe kicks off with his classic “I Knew the Bride” (assisted by Dave Edmunds), but his second tune is a bit of a blank. Wreckless Eric has a couple of goodies, ‘‘Semaphore Signals" and “Reconnez Cherie” and Larry Wallis closes side one with a delightfully dumb chant, ‘‘Police Car.” 
Elvis Costello, so far the most touted of the crew, opens Side Two with Burt Bacharach’s "I Just Don’t Know What to Do with Myself”, a good choice rather undermined by ineptitude in the rhythm section. “Miracle Man” is so-so. 
But the best for last. lan Dury and the Blockheads wind up with "Wake Up and Make Love With Me” and “Billericay Dickie”. Dury’s manic vocalising and his superb band make these two ribald songs the stand out performances of the collection. 
To cap his own two brilliant songs, Dury leads the entire cast in his anthemic “Sex and Drugs and Rock and Roll” (that’s the song, by the way). A heartfelt finale, well worth the price of the album. 
Artist: Dr Buzzard’s Original Savannah Band 
Album: Dr Buzzard’s Original Savannah Band Meets King Penett
Record Label: RCA 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Dr Buzzard’s Original Savannah Band are mulattoes, sort of half-Negro, halfSpanish. Except their percussionists. They're Mexicans. Some of them look Italian. Their lead singer often sings in French. 
Before you tie your brain in a knot, just recall a song called “Cherchez La Femme", which received mucho airplay last year. Sort of Latin disco with a touch of Glenn Miller and the Spanish Salsa sound. Salsa is the kind of music most Poms hum to themselves after returning from their annual dose of food poisoning on the Costa Brava. Put on that silly sombrero and form a conga line. 
After the disco overdose, the Buzzards are a welcome breath of fresh air. They describe themselves as being “simple and stupid, like the 40’s.” Certainly, the wartime big band sound comes through strongly in the brass arrangements. Had Miller survived, it’s likely he would have sounded a bit like this. 
Buzzard mainman, Stony Browder Jnr handles all the songwriting chores, putting together tunes which, while not grabbing immediately, soon become very hummable, and are meat and drink for delicious vocalist Cory Daye. 
The Buzzards have got class. This record should come with a free fedora, doublebreasted suit and stick-on, pencil-thin moustache. Foxtrot, anyone? 
Artist: Allen Toussaint 
Album: Motion 
Record Label: Warner Bros.
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Allen Toussaint began to achieve reknown in the early 60’s, first as a producer/arranger based in New Orleans, then also as a songwriter. (Anyone remember Lee Dorsey’s “Working in a Coalmine”?) These days, while his Sea-Saint Recording Studio remains continually booked up by top stars, Toussaint’s chief fame probably rests on his writing. Many artists, from the Pointer Sisters to Three Dog Night, have enjoyed huge hits with his material. 
Motion is the man’s third album. His second, released in '75, was entitled Southern Nights. (Yeah, Glen Campbell liked it.) It never found great popularity here and can often be seen languishing in sale bins around the town. While Toussaint can be brilliantly successful in producing others it’s ironic that he’s never quite found the magic for his own recordings. And unfortunately it holds true for this new release. 
Basically, I think, the problem lies with Toussaint’s vocals. His voice is undistinguished, of limited range and too weak to provide real dynamics. Under these circumstances, Toussaint’s decision to change backing musicians for this album becomes problematic. Whereas, previously, he has relied on The Meters to furnish that dry Southern funk, here he employs some West Coast supersessionmen. The result, despite the New Orleans production, is a slick smooth sound which blends with the vocals rather than provide a necessary counterpoise. 
Overall, then, I’m disappointed. I guess, as on past occasions, this record will probably be of most value as a lode for other artists to plunder. Hmm, there’s a suitable song here for Bonnie Raitt, one for Manhattan Transfer, maybe Lou Rawls . . . 