Artist: Cheap Trick 
Album: Heaven Tonight 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: George Kay
Although their approach is different, Cheap Trick, like the Twilley Band, the old Raspberries and the Shake Some Action/Now Flamin’ Groovies, are a contemporary American band drawing many of their ideas and moods from the diverse ’60’s British scene. Yet despite their obsessive borrowing from the Beatles/Who/Move vein of achievement, there are signs that Cheap Trick are managing to develop something of their own mainly through the sweat of chief songwriter/guitarist Rick Nielsen. 
Nielsen is an eccentric character whose gawky Marx Brothers image is in direct contrast to the pin-up features of vocalist Robin Zander and bassist Tom Petersson, and whose bizarre lyrical slant gives the band an original edge. This much came out on their second album In Colour which, although uneven, contained some exhilerating songs, namely “Southern Girls”, "Big Eyes", “Come On" and “Downed” which boasted some of Nielsen’s wackiest lyrics: 
I'm gonna live on a mountain 
Way down under in Australia,
It’s either that or suicide 
It's such a strange strain on ya. 
Heaven Tonight sees Cheap Trick steppin’ out more confidently and consistently, intent, it seems, on becoming household names. “Surrender”, their new single, opens the album and immediately Nielsen’s Townshend guitar style and classic pop vocal technique beobvious; ally these to a knee-slapping chorus and lyrics like "Then I woke up, Mom and Dad are rolling on the couch Rolling numbers Rock and rolling, got my Kiss records out," and it’s got to be one of the best 45’s so far this year. “On Top of the World” with its jumpy rhythm belies the hard luck story in the lyrics, in fact Nielsen seems to prefer a half-humorous downer touch in his wordSv “California Man” is done well but the Move did all that needed to be done with that song. We get sex and a hard driving Stones’ feel (sic) on “High Roller” and tongue is well and truly in cheek for the wordplay of "Auf Wiedershen”, "Sayonara oh suicide hari kari kamikaze." See what I mean. 
Side Two provides a sharper focus as to Cheap Trick’s influences to the extent where it is actually possible to pinpoint specific old British classics from which Nielson and Co have stolen or recreated odd pieces as a basis for their ‘own’ songs. The title track, slow and threatening, is built around Lennon’s tortured guitar refrain on “I Want You” from Abbey Road; the closing song, “How Are You”, bears a close rhythmic resemblance to “A Day in the Life Of”; “Stiff Competition” has a rushing chord structure which the Who had prior claim to, and “Takin’ Me Back”, a great song, has an arrangement and vocal delivery that Jeff Lynne would have been proud to call his own, and probably did, when he heard this. 
It’s easy to be negative over Cheap Trick’s hero-worship plagiarism but they are saved from a landslide of lawsuits through their ability to arrange the ideas of others with snatches of Nielsen’s nifty melodic twists and turns. In fact, Cheap Trick show more gusto and sheer nerve on In Colour and Heaven Tonight than most bands can muster during entire careers. If you can suspend judgement on their passion for recreating British rock standards and concentrate on their own fresh qualities, then Cheap Trick will serve quite adequately as this year’s palliative.
Album: Who Are You 
Artist: The Who 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
In all fairness, I ought to state my prejudices now. My favourite Who albums are Who's Next and Quadrophenia - most of Tommy brings me out in hives.
I suspect that those fans whose tastes incline the same way as mine will love this record. Those who are looking for My Generation Part VI or another Tommy are pretty much out of luck. You will probably fit in with that portion of the press in Britain which has taken Who Are You as a sign of collective senility on the part of the band a sign that they can’t get up and do it even one more time. However, that attitude begs the question of whether they have any intention of trying. 
The album kicks off with Townshend’s statement about those knockers - "New! Song”. He says, “I write the same old song with a few new lines, and everybody wants to cheer it. . .” Townshend at least is determined not to end up like some of his contemporaries, eternally recycling the same old song (despite what some of his audience might want). The rest of the record seems to be an attempt to live up to the promise of its opener. 
There are obvious innovations throughout. John Entwistle contributes three songs out of the nine here, and at times he makes startling departures from his usual 707 bass style. Keith Moon also has times when his playing is unrecognisable as the Moon of old - sharp and crisp where once he might have been florid. 
Townshend returns to synthesiser - adding touches which link Who Are You closely to Quadrophenia. He also displays a remarkable advance in piano technique over his previous forays. His playing on "Guitar and Pen” is especially accomplished - showing out as well as Rod Argent’s contribution to the title track. Even his guitar playing shows touches not visible on previous Who albums: he verges on jazz stylings in “Music Must Change”, for example. 
Roger Daltry is in many ways the least convincing performer on the album: in fact both Entwistle on “905”! and Townshend on “Guitar and Pen” turn in vocal performances which, while less grand’ and technically impressive than Daltry’s, have the humanity that seems to have drained from his voice a little. In some ways he is the performer who maintains the strongest links with the old Who. 
The album closes with Townshend holding forth on the subject which has obsessed him for two years or more - punks. While so many are acknowledging him as the source of the English New Wave, he is still canny enough not to be tempted into an imitation of his twenty-one year-old self. “Who are You” is something for the punks to aim at, not something for them to feel at home with. It combines all the advances made on the record boiled down into one song - with everyone turning in a performance unmatched since "Won’t Get Fooled Again”. 
Keith Moon doesn’t need an epitaph - but I still feel glad that his last record with the Who should be this good.
Artist: The Boomtown Rats 
Album: A Tonic For The Troops 
Record Label: Ensign 
Reviewed By: Dominic Free
It would be something of an understatement to say that 1977 was a year full of promising debuts by new bands. But if past experience is anything to go by, for every band to make it with a strong second offering there will be at least two who blow it. The Boomtown Rats make it with A Tonic For The Troops but not without playing with fire. 
Though The Rats titled themselves “The Sex Pistols Of Ireland” when they emerged in 1976, the resemblance between the two bands was certainly not musical. Rather it was a reference to a common history of attempts by the rock music establishment to first ignore and later to stifle these noisy, energetic newcomers. Matters were not improved by The Rats’ spokesman, Bob Geldorf, having one of the fastest lips in town. 
When their debut album appeared last year it obviously did not possess the raw menace of The Sex Pistols. Indeed the musical debt The Rats owed to the likes of Bruce Springsteen, Lou Reed and Dr Feelgood was all too apparent. So much so that, despite its melodic strength and powerful execution, it was far from satisfying in terms of originality. 
All this has changed with the new album. In places it is quite boldly original with apparent experimentation in both melodies and arrangements. This is a risky proposition for a band which cut its teeth on hard rock and conventional balladry, but it works well. To make the transition more palatable for the cautious, the set includes some familiar rock’n’roll swagger in “Blind Date” and The Rats’ patented power chord race on “She’s So Modern”. 
But there is a lighter pop feel to much of the new material. This is best displayed on “Don’t Believe What You Read" and “Can’t Stop”, where Johnny Fingers’ excellent keyboards are to the fore with all their tuneful bounce. Also new for the band are the appealing calypso overtones of “Living In An Island” and the choppy rhythms of “Like Clockwork”. 
The songs may be lighter but there’s no chance of the delivery becoming flabby. Always just below the surface is the unmistakeable ripple of true rock’n’roll brawn. Simon Crowe on drums and Peter Bricquette on bass know what hard tight rhythm is all about and they’re supported by the rugged power of Garry Roberts’ rhythm guitar. Garry also contributes the guitar solo on “She’s So Modern” which is a gem of tunefulness and really good fun besides. Gerry Cott who holds the lead guitar spot scorns the buzz saw approach. With his grasp of the guitar’s more melodic potential he serves as an excellent foil to Fingers’ keyboards. 
Vocalist Bob Geldoff’s pursuit of Mick Jagger’s crown takes him well over the top at times but you’ve got to admire the man’s enthusiasm. Modest Bob’s lyrics are usually worth a listen too. But he simply can’t resist imitations. This time out it’s Phil Lynott of Thin Lizzy in a number called "Rat Trap”. 
This is the first true Boomtown Rats L.P. On the showing given here they remain a band to watch. Though the apparent potential is still greater than the actual achievement, this is not an album to be dismissed lightly. 
Artist: Genya Ravan 
Album: Urban Desire 
Record Label: 20th Century Fox Records 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
How can this seductive street animal, with her glycerine sweat and tattooed stars, qualify for the status of rock and roll veteran? But Genya Ravan (once Goldie Zelkowitz of Goldie and the Gingerbreads) has been around since before most of us got long pants. 
Starting off in a New York group led by Richard Perry, now a not unknown producer, Genya went on to fame with the all-girl Gingerbreads, touring with such luminaries as the Animals and the Stones. Later she cropped up with a brassy soul band, Ten Wheel Drive, before dropping out of sight. 
Now she’s back with a superb self-produced (she’s produced the Dead Boys) album that could be one of the all-time sleepers. 
Vocally, her phrasing is based heavily on the best soul singers. She exudes power, but beyond the incendiary drive of a “Back in My Arms Again” she can conjure up the heartbreak of one of Phil Spector’s heroines. 
In fact, the opening “Jerry’s Pigeons (Are Above Us All)” has the thrust of Spector at his best. As the song fades, Genya starts crooning lines from "Da Doo Ron Ron” that “sound" like an afterthought, but they’re so perfect they can’t be. 
The song seems to sum up the album, a New York tenement view of rock and roll, just as the neglected Kenny Vance album Vance 32 was rock from behind the eyes of a doo-wopper. Vance’s album deserved better than relegation to the deletion bins, but perhaps it was a trifle on the esoteric side. 
Genya Ravan, on the other hand, is pure, straight ahead raunch. As a bonus, Lou Reed duets on a track. The blistering heat generated by Genya Ravan and her superlative backing band are a perfect complement to the icv Lou.
Artist: Red Hot Peppers 
Album: Bright Red 
Record Label: Oz 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
It seems the Australian trip is becoming more and more a vital part of the New Zealand rock and roll world. It is a pity that the trip home hasn't quite assumed the same importance. 
Red Hot Peppers have been in Australia for the best part of two years now, and perhaps more than any local band since Dragon, they have profited by the shift. Their second album, their first Australian one, shows a very considerable improvement over Toujours Yours. While their sound is still based around Marion Arts’ voice and Robbie Laven’s ability to play anything musical, the tendency of the former to quaver and the latter to over-embellish have both been considerably reduced. 
The weakest part of the record is their rerecording of the song, "Preacher Woman" which was also on their debut album. The rest of the material shows a considerable advance, both in writing and arrangement in the last couple of years. In “Angel”, Arts and Laven have come up with a really remarkable song, and many of the others are not too far behind. It looks like Red Hot Peppers went to Australia for finishing school — not to be finished off like so many others. 
Artist: David Johansen 
Album: David Johansen 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
The heavy brigade of American rock and roll has, during this decade, centred itself upon New York city. Perhaps the prima donna status the city enjoys within American cultural life is the. perfect foil for the similarly self-dramatising egos of its rock heroes. Whatever the reasons, the names associated with New York, Patti Smith, the New York Dolls. Lou Reed, and (who could forget) Kiss, are the modern purveyors of melodrama. The traditional New York pose is somewhere between theatre and self confession! a part cynical, part narcissistic expose of urban life, orchestrated with fuzzed guitar and ever-so-slightly psychotic vocals. 
New Yorkers have become very good at such drama, as is evidenced by this solo album by ex-New York Doll, David Johansen. Johansen has written a group of songs in the accepted mould and done it very well. His love songs are not quite love songs: 
You come on like its natural darling 
But you know its really only naturalette 
his dance songs are that little bit sadonic - "Funky but Chic”. When you add the panache of a band who thrash out rock and roll with insistent aggression, you are left with uniquely stylised music. And if like me you believe New York cynicism is in its own way as romanticised as Elvis doing "Love me Tender", it’s no reason to deny that it’s great fun.
Artist: Peter Gabriel 
Album: Peter Gabriel
Record Label: Charisma 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
Hands up those who hate Genesis.
I’ll bet most of you think of Genesis as that pretty insipid bunch of techoflashers who warble away over banks of synthesisers. 
But the fact is, they have quite a respectable past to sell out, and most of it was the work of Peter Gabriel. As he puts it, he walked out of the machine, just when the band began to make a fortune in the States. Instead, he preferred to keep his life at a level where he could look after himself, and to make the occasional record the way he wanted to. 
This is his second album (although it has the same name as his first) and it continues to develop the musical and lyrical style which he began on his last Genesis album, The Lamb Lies Down On Broadway. It is a much more rough-edged and urgent sound than the steadily-romanticising output of his former colleagues, but it also shows a much broaderbased melodic sense. While Genesis more and more seem to be rewriting the same tune, Gabriel can easily juxtapose the introspective "Mother of Violence” with the mutated Heavy Metal of "D.I.Y.” and the three-legged calypso of "A Wonderful Day In A One-Way World”. 
On the evidence of the last two Genesis albums and Gabriel’s two, while they are painting themselves into a lucrative corner of the market, he’s got his freedom, and two considerably better records. 
You can put your hands down now. 
Artist: Dirk Hamilton 
Album: Meet Me At The Crux 
Record Label: Elektra 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
In 1968 Dirk Hamilton - 18 years old, growing up absurd in California and taking too much acid - was cracking up when he first heard Van Morrison. As he now recalls: "Somehow Astral Weeks kept me from killing myself ... it hit me like magic." 
Understandable then that Morrison should be a major influence in Hamilton’s music. It is also blatantly obvious. At least half this album copies Morrison’s punchy, white R & B of the early 70’s. Even more overt is Hamilton’s vocal delivery which virtually plagiarizes his mentor’s style: its staccato phrasing and semi-scat improvising. 
But while this similarity to Morrison inevitably invokes comparison it is not necessarily to Hamilton's detriment. He has some fine songs here and, with band and horn section, performs them damn well. Furthermore he goes beyond mere imitation by using a variety of tempos and writing quite distinctive lyrics. 
Although his lyrics occasionally lapse into banal imagery, at best they paint interesting, if pessimistic, portraits. In "How Do You Fight Fire?" a mad bomber about to destroy a city imagines himself as a sly lizard purifying the world of flies.
Dirk Hamilton does possess considerable originality but the crux he must meet is to subsume his influences. The result, as this album indicates, could be a major talent. 
Artist: Solid Senders 
Album: Solid Senders 
Record Label: Virgin 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
This album (a double - one studio album, one live, retailing here at $8.98) highlights the quandary of Wilko Johnson. Since his departure from Dr Feelgood, Wilko has put together a powerhouse band that’s obviously great for a night on the tiles. Real kick out the jams stuff. But on record it leaves something to be desired. And on the studio album the Solid Senders are more wanting. Which is a shame, because in Britain the live record was a promotional freebie. 
The whole problem with the band is pinpointed in the opening track of the studio album, “Blazing Fountains.” Chuck Berryish car-horn guitar wails jump into a raging highway racetrack. Not unlike Bob Seger’s "Get Out of Denver”, the same sort of verbal overload. Seger could handle it. Maybe Lee Brilleaux could, too Wilko can’t. It’s a garble. There’s tasty piano from John Potter, who does a passable Jerry Lee Lewis impersonation, but it lacks definition. 
Johnson tries here and there for something distinct from his well-worn twelve-bar path, but the efforts often seem forced. The writing just isn’t there. A fully realised song like Smokey Robinson's "Shop Around” really stands out, even though the version here would never challenge The Miracles'. 
If nothing more, the live album is fun. Wilko striding through his piston riff that reached its height with the robotic "Roxette” and tossing off some high octane R&B ("Highway 61,” "Neighbour Neighbour” and "Rock Me, Baby"). But without the visual impact of Wilko’s psychotic stare, the music often sounds unfocused and chaotic. 
Sure, Wilko’s a great guitarist - he virtually re-invented rhythm guitar - but on this showing he’s no frontman.
Artist: Kraftwerk 
Album: Man Machine 
Record Label: Capitol 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
KRAFTWERK - MAN MACHINE - I WISH TO SAY THIS TO YOU IF YOU BUY THE ABOVE NAMED RECORD YOU MIGHT LIKE IT A LOT - I HAVE THE RECORD AND I LIKE IT - I LIKE MOST OF ALL THE SONGS CALLED : THE MODEL : AND : NEON LIGHTS : THESE SONGS ARE ON SIDETWO OF THE RECORD - THIS IS MODERN MUSIC OF A TYPE - IS IT YOURRRR ... * IS IT YOUR THING - I DONT KNOW - DO YOU . ..DO YOU WANNA... DO YOU WANNA DANCE - LEANARD JACKSON WHITFIELD RECORDS MIXED THE RECORD - THE AFRO GERMANIC CONNECTION - SOME SAY DISCO IS THE REAL AVANT GARDE - IT MAKES YYY ... * Y O U THINK IT MAKES ME HUM IN THE DARK - PLUG IN A N D D D DB DBDBBB 888 B EE EE..EE .EE . . 
Artist: Steve Hackett 
Album: Please Don’t Touch
Record Label: Charisma 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
What we have here, basically, is a surrogate Genesis album. 
This is Hackett’s second solo album, and his first since he split from the band. Voyage of the Acolyte, his first, was a great guitarists’ album, but lacked direction in other areas, chiefly songwriting. 
Don't Touch is much stronger material-wise, and shows Hackett extending his musical 1 abilities as displayed on the extensive inner sleeve credits. 
For all that, the Genesis hangover is omnipresent. None of these songs would have been out of place on a group album, and the whole project hints at the frustration Hackett must have felt at having his songs dumped in favour of Collins-Rutherford-Banks compositions. 
English eccentricity and heavy keyboard riffs abound. Richie Havens" is called in to sing on two tracks, “How Can I?” and “Icarus Ascending”, both lovely songs, Havens’ warm, expressive voice enhancing them even further. 
Elsewhere, Hackett shares vocal chores with Steve Walsh and Randy Crawford, and proves to have a passable set of pipes. 
There is nothing at all wrong with this record. Au contraire, Arnold, it is a fine effort, showing Hackett to have plenty of ideas and a great deal to offer. 
But let us hope that he can shake off the yoke of his old band and have something more individual to offer next time round. 
Artist: Carole Bayer Sager 
Album: ... Too 
Record Label: Elektra 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Ms Sayer has spent many years writing lyrics for popular tunesmiths. It was she, for example, who informed us that “Nobody Does It Better” than James Bond. This is her second album as interpreter of her own words and other people’s melodies.
Sager’s vocal delivery has been kindly described as conveying an air of vulnerability, (an interpretation calculatedly implied by the sympathetic sleeve photos). A harsher assessment would call it weak and cracked. Judy Garland she ain’t. Nonetheless, although unable to sustain the notes, if the tempo and backing is supportive, her voice can become rather engaging with familiarity. 
Which means, of course, that she’s only as good as the tune and arrangement. She has worked here with such divergent composers as Melissa Manchester, Alice Cooper and Marvin Hamlisch. Consequently the material encompasses a variety of styles. The first track has the lush 50’s Ballad sound once identified with Julie London, while track two, after a shaky start, struts with confident funk. What’s more both of them work. 
Not all however, Side One is fairly good, if predominantly in the 3am-listening mould. Side Two starts well enough but gradually drifts into vapidity. 
As pop singers go, others certainly do it better but, given the right setting, Carole Bayer Sager can give a fair account of herself.
Artist: Wha-koo 
Album: Berkshire 
Record Label: ABC 
Reviewed By: Jeremy Templer
Ken Caillat co-produced Fleetwood Mac’s Rumours and this album, Berkshire, with similar adroitness. But Wha-koo isn’t Fleetwood Mac, nor even Steely Dan. Lead vocalist David Palmer did sing with Steely Dan though and, with guitarist Danny Douma, he writes most of Wha-koo’s songs. Palmer writes smooth pop ballads like “Mother of Pearl” that would have sounded at home on Can't Buy A Thrill or Countdown to Ecstasy. Under his direction this band would be best known for quality 45 rpm pop. 
On their second album, however, Wha-koo still alternates between pop and rock with no clear sense of direction and though "(You’re such a) Fabulous Dancer” may yet be a medium-sized hit it is the album’s only strong single. Eclecticism is easily confused with versatility and competence seen as excellence but Berkshire tries too hard for perfection to be anything more than ordinary. 
Artist: Maddy Prior 
Album: Woman in the Wings 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: William Dart
I am sure I was not the only person to be curious as to what the little lady from Steeleye Span would do on her solo album. And having lan Anderson for producer could only but sharpen that curiosity. 
Surprisingly, Maddy Prior doesn’t use any traditional numbers on the record, they are all self-penned numbers written during Steeleye Span’s numerous years on the road. Because of the intrinsic differences from song to song, as well as in their treatment, it is hard to summarise the album, but here are some of the songs that made a fairly sharp first impression. 
On the lighter side, Maddy does an Andrews sisters pastiche in “I Told You So” recalling some of Maria Muldaur’s recent work. "Woman in the Wings” is an analysis of the problems of performers and their night-by-night lives. This is the longest track and features a typically elaborate David Palmer arrangement. In fact some of Palmer’s arrangements make songs such as ‘‘Deep Water” sound like art-songs, which gives the album an incredible range of styles, but might also hinder its popular appeal. 
A lovely album, although Festival have reduced the packaging and omitted all the players’ credits. 
Artist: Johnny McLaughlin 
Album: Electric Guitarist 
Record Label: CBS 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
John McLaughlin has dropped the Mahavlshnu tag. The title of this album derives from a business card McLaughlin used to proffer when he was a kid guitarist on the way up. Remember that name, right? 
One might argue that McLaughlin’s devotion to the mystic Sri Chinmoy led him down paths that were to the detriment of his music. The severing of the public association with his guru has put the guitarist firmly back In the musical vanguard, breathing new life into a form that he (and his associates) virtually Invented, the socalled jazz-rock fusion. 
Fusion had become a cul-de-sac for so many musicians attempting to milk its commerciality. Here, McLaughlin, with a stellar cast, drives so hard toward the end of the tunnel that the light blinds. 
For the seven tracks, he has assembled five different groups of the most noteworthy jazzrock players, most of whom have been prominent In McLaughlin’s past. Included are Billy Cobham, Stanley Clarke, Jerry Goodman, David Sanborn, Jack Bruce, Tony Williams and Devadip Carlos Santana. 
The music ranges from the propulsive opening "New York on My Mind’’, which duplicates the sound of the original Mahavishnu Orchestra, to the closing solo guitar piece, "My Foolish Heart,” which broods gently after the hectic guitar-drum dialogue between'McLaughlin and Cobham on the preceding "Phenomenon: Compulsion."
After some meandering albums and a spell away from the electric axe with the acoustic intricacies of Shakti, John McLaughlin is back with what may be his best album yet. 
Artist: Janis lan 
Album: In Concert 
Record Label: Interfusion 
Reviewed By: William Dart
This album is virtually a song-by-song recording of the concert which the singer gave in Auckland last year. So If you enjoyed the concert, this review Is quite superfluous. There is the obligatory "Jesse" and "At Seventeen", as well as a selection of songs from her four other Interfusion albums. 
I complained of the concert that lan didn't have enough variety in her songs, and a touch of humour here and there would not be amiss. The one light touch of the concert, "New York in the Springtime" unfortunately gets off to a bad start with a cool audience response and an underrecorded opening. 
lan Is a smooth craftsperson, albeit a trifle cynical. And considering the horrendous reception that the beautiful Present Company album got, who can blame her for not making waves these days. 
I’m not really knocking the album, as it is rather a pleasant reminder of the concert, but if anybody had the other four Interfusion albums, they might be worried about the paucity of new songs on this live set. 
Artist: Joe Cocker 
Album: A Luxury You Can Afford 
Record Label: Asylum 
Reviewed By: George Kay 
It’s a slimmer Joe Cocker that graces the cover of his latest album, his first for Asylum, to the twelve - pints - a - day - man who toured here with the American Standard Band last year. Cocker’s congeniality and easy going attitude have put him at the mercy of many sharp rock businessmen. (Leon Russell springs to mind) with the result that he has continually slipped from the formidable R & B presence of his first album.
His new album seems to be an attempt to put much of his past chaos well and truly behind him. As he comments himself on Phil Driscoll's very moving "Wasted Years" - "Phil Driscoll wrote this especially for me. Some might say it sums up my life!" Driscoll Is a young writer from Jacksonville whose two songs on the album, the aforementioned "Wasted Years" and the beautiful “Boogie Baby", aided by Cocker’s Interpretation easily steal the thunder from versions of “Watching the River Flow" and a rather heavyfisted "I Heard It Through the Grapevine". 
Allen Toussaint, who produced the album at Muscle Shoals with the usual collection of flawless musicians, has one of his own songs, “Fun Time" Included, an excellent piece of funk written especially for Cocker. "A Whiter Shade of Pale” was tailor-made for Cocker's Sheffield soul treatment and guitarist Larry Byrom leads the melody line with plenty of feeling.
Luxury is a well organized and professionally executed album which proves that Cocker is still one of the finest blues singers around, but In 1978 people don’t seem to care anymore. 
Artist: Leon Russell 
Album: Americana
Record Label: Paradise 
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
My friend Phil and I always disagreed about Leon Russell. Phil claimed Russell had a horrible voice and made annoyingly eccentric albums but occasionally wrote beautiful songs which, mercifully, someone else recorded. I defended Russell's singing as distinctive and always found the albums impressively original. I regard Carney (‘72) as Russell's masterpiece, with Will O' the Wisp (‘75) close behind. Phil hates both but likes George Benson singing their ballads. 
Since 76 Phil’s been happier about Russell's new music than I have. Russell got married and with his wife made two albums full of smooth love songs. Phil liked the vocals and production; I feared marital bliss was driving Russell to the middle of the road.
Now on Americana Mrs Russell is absent, apparently having left hubby alone with the dog. And if there’s some ensuing maudlin lovesickness it's well balanced by numbers which show a resurgence of Leon’s old spirit.
However he must share the credit for this. The jaunty brass work is courtesy of Chicago and nearly all the songs are co-written by that Inveterate oddball-cum-hustler Kim Fowley. 
The songs remain conventional but are strong with it. The sound is still polished but there’s fire too. 
Phil and I are both pleased with Americana.