Artist: Mink De Ville
Album: Return to Magenta
Record Label: Capitol
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
How does one follow a classic? It’s a question that’s always been the torment of the artist. Sometimes it's insurmountable and subsequent works are merely a reminder of greater achievements. Others rise to the challenge. Willy De Ville is a winner. 
The first Mink De Ville album was one of the strongest debut records. Every song was attacked as if there was no second chance. Definitely a hard one to follow. Return to Magenta is a little more careful in tone, but excellent nonetheless.
Once again there are strong overtones of Phil Spector. Once again Jack Nitzsche, Spector's protege, is at the controls. “Guardian Angel” and “Just Your Friends”, with its manic haronica straining over what seems like dozens of furiously strummed acoustic guitars, are firmly in the tradition of Uncle Phil. “Soul Twist” and “Rolene” are mainstream Mink De Ville R&B in the manner of “She's So Tough" and “Gunslinger” from the previous album. 
But Mink De Ville are not stuck in a cut de sac bounded by echo-laden ballads and New York rhythm and blues. “ ‘A’ Train Lady” is reminiscent of Curtis Mayfield and the Impressions, ‘‘Desperate Days” is sort of Spanish Harlem reggae, and “Easy Slider” with Dr John on the eighty-eights could be New Orleans parade music. "Steady Driving’ Man” is, as the title suggests, a boastful 80-Diddley styled raver, giving Willie plenty of room to stutter and snarl. He has one of the greasiest leers since the halcyon days of Presley. 
Doc Pomus wrote the liner and “I Broke that Promise” is full of the string drenched heartbreak that Pomus injected into his own great ‘‘Save the Last Dance for Me.” Willie De Ville should have recorded “On Broadway”, not George Benson. As Pomus, says, “Mink De Ville knows the truth of a city street and the courage in a ghetto love song.” Hyperbole, yes, but appropriate all the same.
Reviewed By: Peter Thomson
Artist: Commodores 
Album: Natural High 
Record Label: Motown 
Artist: Bob Seger & The Silver Bullet Band 
Album: Stranger in Town 
Record Label: Capitol 
Despite their distinctly different musical styles, these two records have a number of factors in common. For a start, both constitute the first collection of new material to be presented by a now major figure whose previous album furnished the all-important breakthrough from cult status to widespread popularity. Where once the Commodores remained darlings of the disco set, they now get selected to perform on prime time T.V. in a Music Awards Special. Where once Bob Seger seemed another aging rocker tenaciously surviving on the grind of constant touring, he now counts the profits from Night Moves and sees it also make critics’ ‘Records of the Year’ lists. 
Both artists must consequently be depending heavily on the new discs to consolidate their recently won acclaim. Put another way, the obvious question that you want answered in each case is: ‘ls this album as good as the last one?’ 
Now that’s some expectation. The last one didn't just make it on luck and promotion; there was a bunch of brilliant tracks there. But the answer, in each case, must be an 'almost, but not quite’. It's not that there’s something wrong with the new albums; there isn’t. They continue the same high standards of their predecessors. It’s simply that this time around the successful musical formula sounds, well, the same as it did last time. There’s a certain lack of freshness. In terms of style and arrangement perhaps one shouldn't expect any great change. Obviously artists will continue to mine a rich lode, however on both albums there is the occasional case of melodic phrasing which sounds a bit too redolent of previous work. Nonetheless, if neither record provides quite the outstanding heights of last year’s efforts, there are many fine tracks. 
In funky vein the Commodores continue to deliver the goods, including a particularly catchy "Flying High”. There’s also the, by now expected, highlight of a Lionel Richie ballad. 
Seger, of course, can still punch out rock & roll of classic dimensions. The shining example here is “Hollywood Nights”, a number which amply demonstrates not only his stature as singer but as a songwriter. The lyric captures, in brilliant simplicity, the sort of ‘rock truth’ which lesser talents strain to express. 
Many of the cuts on Stranger in Town show Seger pursuing the lighter, less gutsy style he employed to effect on Night Moves. Once the use of strings and girly chorus would have been anathema to him but here they almost become an integral part of the sound. Some Seger fans think he’s going soft, but I remain faithful. Strangely, the only real failures are the two non-originals. (It seems silly to weaken the album and give someone else the royalties when some of his own early songs could stand updating.) 
But, in neither the Commodores’ or Seger's case is the album to be considered a failure. If the previous album scaled new heights, this one is at least hanging in there. Not as good? Pretty close.
Artist: Jethro Tull 
Album: Heavy Horses 
Record Label: Chrysalis 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
Jethro Tull’s lan Anderson is the antithesis of every rock star you've ever known. 
His contempt for blue jeans, most modern music apart from his own, and the sex, drugs and rock ’n' roll syndrome is boundless. 
Anderson has long been Tull’s sole creative force, and his fanatical following has never wavered. Once a Tull fan, always a Tull fan. Their unique fusion of free-form jazz, classics and English folk is a heady, spellbinding mixture that is highly addictive and extremely popular. Witness the enormous queues in Queen St for tickets the New Zealand Tull tours of 1972 and 1974. 
Heavy Horses, the band’s eleventh outing, reflects a mellowing of mood that was already evident in the previous album, Songs From The Wood. 
Anderson, once the man without a home who lived out of suitcases, is now settled in an elderly farmhouse in the English countryside, with his second wife Shona, and baby son James. His new-found delight in country and family life is now a strong influence. 
Gone is much of the heavy, electric riffing that was once a Tull trademark, to be replaced by a skilful weaving of acoustic guitars, flutes, violins and percussion instruments. Not a “Locomotive Breath” in sight. 
The melodies are subtle and take time to appreciate fully. There are strong Elizabethan and Celtic strains, no more so than on “Acres Wild”, where Darryl Way’s violin combines with some very primitive hand drumming to produce a sound as traditional as The Chieftains in full cry. 
The imagery of the lyrics is decidedly pastoral, with Anderson playing the squire of the country manor. Cats prowl the barn (“The Mouse Police”), moths dance around candle flames (“Moths”), and anxious eyes are cast towards the weather vane to see what the day will bring ("Weathercock”). 
In “No Lullaby”, Anderson sings to his baby son, warning him of the “dragons and beasties” that lurk in the outside world, and the battles he must fight. Only here and on the title track is the band allowed to extend itself. Otherwise, the reins are held tight. 
Not everyone’s glass of mead, but then Jethro Tull never have been. It’s another love-it-or-leave-it sound, and this one won't gain any new fans. Even Tull fanatics will find it difficult listening at first, but perseverence will bring rewards. 
Jethro Tull are very much alive and well and living in the country. Not as tough or as biting as in days of yore, but still in a class of their own. lan Anderson is no longer a rampant young stallion, but he can still sire a good ’un when the occasion calls. Long may his lum reek.
Artist: Genesis 
Album: And Then There Were Three 
Record Label: Charisma 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
No record collection should be without at least one Genesis album. Their music is a yardstick to judge others by, in terms of tune, arrangement and production. 
Genesis excel in all three departments, especially when it comes to proving that classical-rock music is not just an attempt to camouflage a weak tune with a grandiose arrangement. 
The strength of Genesis has always lain in their songs, and anyone who failed to understand their earlier effort's has only to listen to “Ripples” or “Trick of The Tail” to change his mind.
Genesis have the cumulative talent to transcend all barriers, all of them artificial, and reach out to all music lovers with the sincerity and dedication that are their hallmarks. 
In these pages I have already extolled the virtues of the live set “Seconds Out”, but the following studio effort is always the proof of the pudding, doubly so for Genesis, since in the interim they've lost guitarist Steve Hackett, once a major creative source.
Have no fears here, for "Three” is admirable evidence that Genesis as a trio are still as viable as ever, and new horizons abound. 
This album marks the emergence into the limelight of Mike Rutherford as a composer and allows Tony Banks to consolidate his already-proven songwriting ability. 
Rutherford especially makes his presence felt, with the exquisite "Snowbound”, which Genesis fans are bound to be singing for weeks to come, and the brooding “Deep In The Motherlode”. 
This album also marks a breakthrough for Genesis, in that it's produced their first hit single, "Follow You, Follow Me.” Our own noble Murray Cammick says it sounds like Seals and Crofts. Maybe, but if it gets Genesis a wider audience, then well done. Anyway, it’s just about the weakest track on the album. 
Once again, David Hentschel is behind the control board, and the production here would make even the most inferior stereo sound good. Turn it up loud and let the sound wash over you. 
Genesis have had their share of troubles, first losing Peter Gabriel and now Hackett, but on this showing their future seems assured. This album is a lesson in survival. 
Artist: Brian Eno 
Album: Before And After Science 
Record Label: Polydor 
Reviewed By: Terence Hogan
C’mon guys and gals, let’s measure out our lives in shirts like we did last summer, get back to minus in a tiny canoe and separate the torso from the spine. What is there left to do? 
We could turn to the wall or we could turn to Eno, because the dust is settling and the cows are coming home to roost. In Eno we will find true beauty (’scuse me) but you’ve only got to peer into the back of a radio to get that stuff. The music of a jellyfish chamber ensemble is another kettle entirely and you might just find that on Eno’s newest hot platter called Before And After Science. 
I want you to buy this record by one of my favourite rock stars because this is the one that folk who don’t think they like Eno might just like. My own tastes run to Lou Reed, Abba, and the Fifty Foot Hose so you can see that I wouldn’t put you crook. 
B & A Sc. is Eno's smoothest production job yet, it almost sounds like your conventional rock record, almost. Especially on side one wherein lurk such heavy musos ('scuse me) as Phil Collins, Dave Mattacks, Phil Manzanera, and the Dadaist Kurt Schwitters who died in 1948. Nice to see you back on deck Kurt. 
Some of these gents make it through that little hole and out onto Side Two, bits of which do sound like elevator music at an oyster colony, but the masses have been prepared for that facet of Eno through exposure to Bowie’s music-to-eat-Gothic-cathedrals-by. Nearly every one of those umpteen thousand souls who bought Low and Heroes are searching for Eno even if they don’t know it. 
Then there’s “Here He Comes”, the brilliant piece of pop that kicks off Side Two and could kick Kate Bush and the Bee Gees into next Saturday Night forever. Yes ... I’m recommending Eno to you and I've never even met him! Then consider warm jets, tiger mountain and another green world. Your tympanum will tell your cochlea that it’s Xmas again. 
Artist: Nick Lowe 
Album: The Jesus of Cool 
Record Label: Radar 
Reviewed By: Francis Stark
It can’t be easy being Nick Lowe. 
When you are the subject of more scurrilous stories than anybody else around concerning your, um, peculiar attitudes towards plagiarism, record production, pop music, alcohol, and general coolness, people wait for your records like piranhas. Those twelve inches of vinyl are the perfect opportunity for somebody to really show you up for the phoney you are. In the case of ‘The Jesus of Cool, they are all going to be disappointed. It’s everything you might have expected and more. 
Everybody has heard the Bowiesque “I Love the Sound of Breaking Glass’ but the album also features thinly-disguised appearances by the Jackson Five, Thin Lizzy, 10cc and Nick Lowe, as well as brief references to others along the way. It also features Lowe's rough and ready approach to the mixing desk, already heard to good effect on records by lan Drury, Elvis Costello, Graham Parker, Dr Feelgood and the Damned. 
This combination of this clear-conscienced plundering of pop music's archives and the vigorous playing and production of the record put Lowe at least on the same footing as his proteges, and in some cases above them. While he cheerfully pinches any idea that is not screwed down, none of his songs amount to parodies or copies of the originals. Where they get really close, as on ‘The Sound of Breaking Glass’, they use the idea, and its connotations, to create a completely new song - often by the inclusion of particularly bizarre set of lyrics. 
The Jesus Of Cool ensures in its own modest way that the music of Lowe and his London contemporaries (people like Parker, Dury Costello and Dave Edmunds) will survive. It is packed with radio songs, and while it may not winkle the Bee Gees out of the top forty, it will be played enough to make it a little easier to be Nick Lowe. 
Artist: Amazing Rhythm Aces 
Album: Burning the Ballroom Down 
Record Label: ABC 
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
In the movie The Last Waltz the band’s drummer, travel worn Levon Helm, talks about Memphis and the surrounding area as the “sort of middle of the country” where all musical influences come together. From this melting pot of blues, country and gospel emerged 8.8. King, Elvis Presley, the Band, and the Amazing Rhythm Aces. 
It’s by no means fanciful to see the Aces as the successors to the Band. At their best, the Aces can evoke that sense of the vanishing American frontier that was the hallmark of the Band, a meld of the pastoral and the medicine show. 
Their new album consolidates the reputation they have built with their three previous releases, a mixture of rhythm and blues, country and gospel, tinged with Western Swing styled guitar, intricate and propulsive. 
As usual, Russell Smith pens most of the songs, including the Bob Segerish title track and the haunting "Spirit Walk.” 
He hasn’t Robbie Robertson’s sense of drama or his feel for an oblique lyric, rather he concentrates on melody and musical texture, to set the tone. 
There’s no catchy “Third Rate Romance” or “The End is Not in Sight,” but the album is a delight throughout. 
“We’re schizo,” says Smith, “We dig people as far apart as Ella Fitzgerald and Hank Williams. Most of what we like comes out in our music.”
Artist: The Vibrators 
Album: Pure Mania 
Record Label: Epic 
Reviewed By: Duncan Campbell
The Vibrators are one of the string of second-division punk bands which caught onto the New Wave mania when it hit Britain in early 1976. 
They came along at a time when energy, rather than skill, was the key word. Learn four chords, form a band and play at breakneck speed, not forgetting to yell out the traditional counting-in. 
The Vibrators, in fact, were largely opportunists, who saw the New Wave as a chance for the fame which had long eluded them. Leader lan Carnochan, affectionately known as Knox, is 32, and chief sidekick John Ellis is 26, as is drummer John “Eddie” Edwards. Original bassist Pat Collier was in the same age group, and has since been replaced by 19-year-old Gary Tibbs, whose punk credentials are slightly better. 
The Vibrators started off playing the same London pubs and clubs as most New Wave bands, until they caught Chris Spedding’s eye. He got them to record his "Pogo Dancing”, but their own “We Vibrate” single made a far greater impact, and will doubtless be looked at as one of the first great punk singles. 
Pure Mania die big business in Britain, since it was one of the first genuine “punk” albums as such to be released. Sadly, it is now over a year old as it is finally released here and shows its age. 
To coin a familiar phrase, Pure Mania now sounds like Last Year's Thing. Every song sounding the same, taken at high speed, dubiously dirty lyrics with occasional kinky references . . . it’s all there. And it’s long since been surpassed. The Vibrators have been living and gigging in Germany in recent months and are now touring Britain again. Reports are that their show and material has changed drastically from this. 
This simply serves to echo the recent complaint made in these pages by Jah Jarrett over the reluctance of record companies to release reggae. The same applies to New Wave. Pure Mania might have sold had it been released last year. But even to New Zealand punks it’s now sadly irrelevant and has only curio significance. 
Judge for yourself by all means, but when are people who like something other than the Bee Gees, Linda Ronstadt and Fleetwood Mac going to get a decent deal? Surely a little of the sales profits from Saturday Night Fever could be used to hasten the release of a little more minority music? Is that an unreasonable request? 
Artist: Frankie Miller 
Album: Double Trouble 
Record Label: Chrysalis
Reviewed By: George Kay
Double Trouble, Frankie Miller's fifth album, is a fairly apt title as, by all accounts, Miller is your regular Sauchiehall St scrapper, and compared to Full House, his last album and best known reference point, D.T. is, as the title suggests, more abrasive and beliggerent. Miller’s new producer, Jack Douglas (Aerosmith) is partly responsible, but his new band (his fifth consecutive new line-up), comprising Ray Russell (guitar), Procol’s B.J. Wilson on drums and Paul Carrack from Ace on keyboards who has co-written much of the material with Miller, is an improvement even on the excellent asskickers he had on Full House. 
Carrack, who already has Ace’s classic “How Long” under his belt, has the right melodic feel to complement Miller's grimy vocal style try the R&B approach of "The Train” or “Love Waves”. Miller’s own “Have You Seen Me Lately Joan” is a gem, a dusky mid-tempo rocker with a sneaking melody that’s difficult to forget. Andy Fraser, the same, has two powerful songs on D.T. “Love is All Around” and “Double Heart Trouble”, a good Bad Company cockstrut and Miller’s Paul Roger’s phrasing is perfect. Frankie, like Rod Stewart, is a shrewd interpreter of other peoples’ songs as he demonstrated on Full House with Lennon’s "Jealous Guy” and the old “Love Letters”. On D.T. we get Marvin Gaya’s “Stubborn Kind of Fellow” which doesn’t do much for me, but the oldie "Goodnight Sweetheart” swings with a sort of sentimental power and ideal closing track. 
A good album, but Miller is a restless sorta guy as he just can’t seem to keep a band tied down for more than one album and there’s little hope of him becoming a household name with this instability. He will probably never become fashionable and D.T. may not be this year’s most essential record but he’s far too good to be ignored. 
Artist: Various 
Album: Transatlantic - the Vintage Years 
Record Label: Transatlantic 
Reviewed By: William Dart
There was a time when you could almost guarantee a musical product by the record on which it appeared. Island, Elektra, Transatlantic these were three cases in point. 
Now, with Transatlantic being revived by RTC we are given a sampler of some of the best work that appeared on that label. Songs by Pentangle, the Humblebums, Richard Digance, Ralph McTell, Gerry Rafferty, Bert Jansch and John Renbourn make one realise that at one point Transatlantic certainly had a stranglehold on the more interesting British ‘folkies’. 
For me, anyway, Steeleye Span and some of the later electric folk groups took the wind out of Pentangle’s sails to some degree. And yet Transatlantic had Mr Fox who made two quite exceptional albums in the late 60s early 70s. But they unfortunately don’t feature on this sampler. 
Nicest surprise on the record is an Irish group, The Boys of the Lough doing live performances of "The Kincora Jig” and “Behind the Haystack”. 
Don’t know how much this disc is, but I should imagine it is mid-price. Let’s hope it whets people’s appetites for Gerry Rafferty and the Humblebums! 
Artist: Tom Robinson Band 
Album: Power in the Darkness 
Record Label: E.M.I. 
Reviewed By: William Dart
What is the elusive something which has everybody panting in anticipation of a new album? Whatever one may think of TRB, their debut album seems to have had this effect on the record buying market. Which in itself must be significant. 
The album itself? A mixture of hits and misses, unfortunately. If we go back to TRB’s debut E.P. which had the notorious “Glad to be Gay” on it, we can see the considerable strengths of the band. A live performance of dazzling power, a rather quizzical sense of humour (“Martin”), a good polemical protester, not without a trace of irony (“Glad to be Gay”), a bitter look at the music industry (“Don’t Take No for an Answer”) and a good wind-up raver for closers (“Right On Sister”). 
Now to the album. There is the “Motorway” single, which is very effective as such and another strong number is “Grey Cortina”, in which Chuck Berry’s auto-imagery is evoked: 
Twin exhaust and rusty bumper 
Chewing gum at traffic light 
Stop at red but leave on amber 
Grey Cortina - outasight 
A good straightforward rock song, working within a genre and no less effective for having done so. And a song like “Too Good to be True” is a rather nice “new-wave-ballad” even if it is rather similar to “Glad to be Gay” at times on the musical side. 
Going back to the E.P. it was obvious in songs like “Don’t Take No for an Answer” that Robinson knows how to make a really driving chorus that can take repetition after repetition - and considering the rather tepid attempts in this direction by many current groups, this is quite a feat. On the album songs like “We Aint’t Gonna Take it’’ and “Up Against the Wall" have similarly memorable choruses, but the verses are so weighed down with political verbiage that the chorus assumes the role of a musical oasis. 
The political thing I find rather hard to accept in the album. The title song, "Power in the Darkness” is a case in point. It could be subtitled “Seven Definitions of Freedom”, and the poetic style is rather uncomfortably close to some of Donovan's more recent work. When the Town Hall tyrant speaks his piece in the middle, it reminds one of some of the gimmicks late sixties groups were putting in their songs. Robinson never really gets outside of the song at all, and distance or irony is important in any form of popular art. Reed, Newman and Zappa are proof enough of this. 
These grumps apart, there is much to admire in the album. A disciplined band with a real sense of ensemble playing, and effective use of a basic rock band line-up, which avoids any sameness in the sound. 
Maybe I should stop using Elvis Costello as a touchstone for all the other New Wave artists. It will seemingly only lead to massive discontent.
Artist: Ry Cooder 
Album: Jazz 
Record Label: Warner Brothers
Reviewed By: William Dart
Another fine release from WEA is Ry Cooder’s latest. Cooder, like David Bowie and Randy Newman, always keeps his audience guessing. A small audience, but a faithful one I should imagine. And a growing one, judging by his reception in the Auckland Town Hall last month. 
Leaving the Tex-Mex style of his previous two albums behind him, Ry Cooder has espoused the causes of various genres of American popular music ranging from the late 19th century to the present day. 
The most contemporary offerings here are three traditional Carribean numbers adapted by the great Bahamian guitarist, Joseph Spence. In these numbers Cooder uses an instrumental group incorporating such diverse colours as cymbalum and pump organ, and mandolin and tuba, to create a sound somewhere between his earlier “Denomination Blues” and the music Taj Mahal was making in the early 70s. 
The oldest number is “The Dream” which dates from around 1880. However the bulk is what the title of the album suggests: Jazz. There is "Flashes”, a stunning Bix Beiderbecke solo played by Cooder on solo guitar, and two songs are quaintly touching as pieces of nostalgia these are “Big Bad Bill is Sweet Willian Now” and "Shine”. In “Shine" and "Nobody” Cooder uses a vocal quartet with some smooth harmonies underlying Cooder’s vocals. 
It is really impossible to praise Jazz too highly. And, in closing, it is pleasing to note that Joseph Byrd is still around and arranging. If the name doesn’t ring a bell try to find a copy of the United States of America’s first and only album, or Phil Ochs’ Pleasures of the Harbour. 
Artist: Johnny Guitar Watson 
Album: Funk Beyond the Call of Duty
Record Label: DJM
Reviewed By: Ken Williams
Johnny Guitar Watson, a veteran of more than 20 years of funky music, is still a virtual unknown in New Zealand even though for a time he used to come into our living rooms every week. That was when A Week of It used one of his tunes as its outro. Very good it sounded, too, but sadly it was uncredited and to most people Watson remains an oddball whose album jackets are so outrageously tasteless as to be almost quaint.
Too bad. He’s one of the best R&B artists around. He’s been around since the mid fifties, an influence on a whole generation of guitar players, most especially Frank Zappa, who used Watson for hot vocal duties on “One Size Fits All”. He was the original “Gangster of Love” and notes wryly that while Steve Miller's version of the song went gold, his stayed plastic. 
A couple of years ago Watson moved to DJM and made Ain't That A Bitch, a classic workout in space age funk. Watson was one of the first to explore the electronic aspects of the electric guitar and he hasn’t stood still. He played virtually all the instruments on the album and multi-tracked the vocals. The album was a smash in the States. He followed it with A Real Mother For You, which was again very good, but a little too close to Bitch for comfort. 
Now he delivers his third DJM album. It’s the same old groove . . . but it’s wonderful. It’s what is by now formula Watson, dense moog backgrounds, sly vocals, stinging guitar lines and rhythms that won’t quit. 
Johnny Guitar Watson may be working what has turned out to be a golden groove, but his saving grace, like that of Chuck Berry, is his wit. He writes some of the funniest lyrics and punctuates them with some of the most blowing music around. The gangster is back. 
Artist: Waylon Jennings and Willie Nelson 
Album: Waylon and Willie 
Record Label: R.C.A. 
Reviewed By: Bruce Belsham
The prospect of a new Waylon Jennings, Willie Nelson collaboration is a thing to approach with mixed expectations. As Rolling Stone magazine writer, Chet Flippo, puts it on the back of the sleeve, these two men are the godfathers of modern country music. Consequently one expects either a record of real excellence, or the disappointment of hasty product hustled together to raise fast dollars. 
To tell the truth, as an occasional admirer of the genre, I have been lately disheartened by the relentless parade of mediocre country performers and downright bad country songs on the likes of T.V. One’s The Entertainers. Country music and I were becoming estranged. 
I am offering then a small prayer of thanks to Waylon and Willie for restoring my faith. It turned out to be as good as I had wanted, to bolster my waning appetite. 
Waylon and Willie is an album on which that essential ingredient, care, seems to have been spent. First indications were not good. The cover was tacky, there was no useful information anywhere to be seen. So how relieved I was to hear an excellent, clean production, to hear arrangements, not intruding, but heightening songs. And most welcome of all was the first rate vocal presentation. 
Waylon and Willie's harmonies, where used, have the quality of naturally complementary voices, a quality enhanced by years of experience. Jenning’s throaty toughness and Nelson's nasality give the intensity that distinguishes the “outlaws” from pulp C&W rivals.
The atmosphere the two create, part macho-strength, part plaintiveness emerges from an obvious attention to the songs. Practice, or at least honest sentiment has been pumped into the material all of which has been lifted by performance. My favourite is Nelson’s “It’s Not Supposed to Be That Way” and I’ll also put in a word for “Looking for a Feeling” and “I Can Get Off On You”. Not to forget a nice treatment of a Shel Silverstein, Dennis Locorriere number “A Couple More Years". 
This is a fine little record, one that, if I were Mr Westmoreland, producer of The Entertainers, would make my stomach sink. 